every now and then a movie comes along from a suspect studio , with every indication that it will be a stinker , and to everybody's surprise ( perhaps even the studio ) the film becomes a critical darling . 
mtv films' _election , a high school comedy starring matthew broderick and reese witherspoon , is a current example . 
did anybody know this film existed a week before it opened ? 
the plot is deceptively simple . 
george washington carver high school is having student elections . 
tracy flick ( reese witherspoon ) is an over-achiever with her hand raised at nearly every question , way , way , high . 
mr . " m " ( matthew broderick ) , sick of the megalomaniac student , encourages paul , a popular-but-slow jock to run . 
and paul's nihilistic sister jumps in the race as well , for personal reasons . 
the dark side of such sleeper success is that , because expectations were so low going in , the fact that this was quality stuff made the reviews even more enthusiastic than they have any right to be . 
you can't help going in with the baggage of glowing reviews , which is in contrast to the negative baggage that the reviewers were likely to have . 
_election , a good film , does not live up to its hype . 
what makes _election_ so disappointing is that it contains significant plot details lifted directly from _rushmore_ , released a few months earlier . 
the similarities are staggering : 
tracy flick ( _election_ ) is the president of an extraordinary number of clubs , and is involved with the school play . 
max fischer ( _rushmore_ ) is the president of an extraordinary number of clubs , and is involved with the school play . 
the most significant tension of _election_ is the potential relationship between a teacher and his student . 
the most significant tension of _rushmore_ is the potential relationship between a teacher and his student . 
tracy flick is from a single parent home , which has contributed to her drive . 
max fischer is from a single parent home , which has contributed to his drive . 
the male bumbling adult in _election_ ( matthew broderick ) pursues an extramarital affair , gets caught , and his whole life is ruined . 
he even gets a bee sting . 
the male bumbling adult in _rushmore_ ( bill murray ) pursues an extramarital affair , gets caught , and his whole life is ruined . 
he gets several bee stings . 
and so on . 
what happened ? 
how is it that an individual screenplay ( _rushmore_ ) and a novel ( _election_ ) contain so many significant plot points , and yet both films were probably not even aware of each other , made from two different studios , from a genre ( the high school geeks revenge movie ) that hadn't been fully formed yet ? 
even so , the strengths of _election_ rely upon its fantastic performances from broderick , witherspoon , and newcomer jessica campbell , as paul's anti-social sister , tammy . 
broderick here is playing the mr . rooney role from _ferris bueller_ , and he seems to be having the most fun he's had since then . 
witherspoon is a revelation . 
it's early in the year , it's a comedy , and teenagers have little clout , but for my money , witherspoon deserves an oscar nomination . 
and once campbell's character gets going , like in her fantastic speech in the gymnasium , then you're won over . 
one thing that's been bothering me since i've seen it . 
there is an extraordinary amount of sexuality in this film . 
i suppose that , coming from mtv films , i should expect no less . . . 
but the film starts off light and airy , like a sitcom . 
as the screws tighten , and the tensions mount , alexander payne decides to add elements that , frankly , distract from the story . 
it is bad enough that mr . m doesn't like tracy's determination to win at all costs , but did they have to throw in the student/teacher relationship ? 
even so , there's no logical reason why mr . m has an affair when he does . 
there's a lot to like in _election_ , but the plot similarities to _rushmore_ , and the tonal nosedive it takes as it gets explicitly sex-driven , mark this as a disappointment . 
