getting it right is a far far cry from the teenage sex comedy you might expect from a summer movie about male virginity . 
the film was directed by randal kleiser , who brought us such bubble-gum classics as grease and the blue lagoon . 
but thanks to kleiser's surprisingly good direction and an intelligent script , getting it right is a pleasantly quiet , moving , and memorable film--one geared strictly toward a sophisticated , adult audience . 
getting it right stars jesse birdsall ( emily lloyd's boyfriend in wish you were here ) as gavin , a painfully shy 31-year-old hairdresser who lives at home with his parents and who--gasp--is still a virgin . 
gavin has no problem whatsoever making small talk with the elderly women who clamor for his services at the hair salon , but expose him to a single 30-year-old beauty and he's a mess . 
much to gavin's surprise , the woman who finally brings him out of his shell and robs him of his virginity is joan ( lynn redgrave ) , a rich , married , and lonely 45-year-old . 
getting it right is the simple story of gavin's awkward and haphazard efforts to get it right ; that is , to find the right woman to fulfill his life . 
getting it right is one of those rare movies that devotes itself entirely to in-depth character development . 
gavin's self-conscious voice-over narration of his experiences firmly thrusts us into his psyche . 
we observe his fascinating metamorphosis from shy and passive introversion to assertive and self-confident maturity . 
birdsall's superb , understated performance as gavin is the real backbone of the film ; he seems convincing and authentic throughout . 
the charm of getting it right also lies in the wide array of people who inhabit or invade gavin's life . 
despite her limited screen time , redgrave makes quite a splash in the movie as gavin's middle-aged seducer . 
for a supporting character , joan is unusually and impressively complex , thanks in large part to redgrave's magnificent performance . 
gavin is also pursued , or perhaps plagued , by minnie , the totally neurotic daughter of a rich aristocrat . 
after minnie and gavin meet at a party , she takes great pleasure in disrupting his safe and simple life . 
helena bonham carter is delightfully pathetic and kooky in the role , and sir john gielgud , with his tongue in his cheek , embodies the height of arrogance as her father . 
gavin's eventual love-interest is jenny , the adorable twenty-year-old single mother who assists him at the beauty salon ; london stage actress jane horrocks' fine performance yields a touchingly sweet character . 
peter cook , the great british satirist , appears briefly in the film as gavin's uptight employer . 
the scenes of gavin's home life with his parents are also a treat . 
gavin's over-protective mother ( pat heywood ) , whom even woody allen would find overbearing , almost steals the movie . 
her life seems limited to just two activities : treating gavin like a 10-year-old and preparing exotic but inedible meals , such as scalding hot curry and baked chicken with chocolate sauce . 
gavin and his father's attempts to avoid eating her meals are extremely amusing . 
getting it right , for the most part , is very well-crafted , except for two minor shortcomings . 
first , the movie is about 15 minutes too long , and consequently it loses momentum at times . 
second , the film includes an altogether extraneous subplot about the domestic problems between gavin's best friend , harry , and his unfaithful lover , winthrop . 
overall , however , getting it right is quite memorable for its humor , depth , sophistication , and outstanding acting . 
director kleiser and screenwriter elizabeth jane howard ( adapting her own highly acclaimed novel ) deserve praise for finding just the right tone for this tale of growth , maturation , and self-discovery . 
