director : penelope spheeris ( decline of western civilization ii - the : metal years , dudes , & suburbia ) 
cast : mike myers ( wayne campbell ) , dana carvey ( garth algar ) , : rob lowe ( benjamin oliver ) , tia carrere ( cassandra ) 
summary : wayne and garth have a public access show called " wayne's : world . " 
the show is a underground hit , until benjamin : oliver comes onto the scene . 
benjamin wants to turn the : show into a big hit nationwide , possibly destroying the : essence of " wayne's world " in the process . 
[expectations - medium] 
long review =========== 
i must admit being a bit reluctant going into this film . 
i didn't believe that they ( mike myers and dana carvey ) could hold it up for an hour and a half , i figured that perhaps the first half-hour would be great , and the rest would be " fluff . " 
however , i was really surprised about how well they were able to keep the laughs going for the virtually the whole film , with the exception of the ending . 
 ( which i won't discuss for obvious reasons , but it's not * that * bad . ) 
story : the plot was quite thin , but it really wasn't that noticeable , because of the rapid-fire jokes that myers wrote in . 
alot of the jokes are very similar to hot shots ! , in being very " parodyish . " 
 ( okay , bad term . ) 
extremely witty throughout , although ( as in hot shots ) it got a bit repetitive in the middle . 
acting : as in many comedies , the acting isn't really * that * important . 
however , myers turns in a good performance as wayne , playing the character perfectly , ( although i still liked him better back on much music , in a more " canadian " type of mode . ) 
carvey is okay as garth , but he lacks the spark myers puts into wayne . 
tia carrere is mediocre as cassandra , playing it very stilted . 
lowe is fine as ben oliver , but is nothing to write home about . 
without a doubt , this movie is mike myers all the way . 
direction : spheeris is a classic " music " movie director , making dudes , and decline of western civilization ii -- the metal years . 
 ( she also directed the boys next door , which is different , to say the least . ) 
she is very capable , knows how direct a comedy , the correct camera movements it instill laughs , etc . one of the better jobs i can remember for a comedy . 
overall : i would suggest to anyone that likes snl's skits to go see this film in the theatres . 
however , my personal opinion , as in most comedies , is that they work just as well on video . 
you definately have to be fan of music , and all forms of media in general to enjoy this film . 
without a doubt , this is the best comedy so far this year . 
it'll make tons 'o' dough for everyone involved . 
let's just hope they make a thousand sequels . 
[sorry , i had to get the lame joke in . . . 
forgive me . ] 
