look back at all the times in your life when there was a fork in the path to the future . 
some sort of decision had to be made , and , for better or worse , it irrevocably altered the course of your existence . 
>from time-to-time , everyone thinks about the roads not taken , and how things might have turned out if the choice had been different . 
perhaps even more dizzying to contemplate is how a seemingly minor action -- catching the 10 am train , for example -- could have an equally profound , yet less obvious , impact . 
maybe that's where you met your significant other , and , had you reached the platform just a few seconds later ? 
film makers are no less fascinated by issues of destiny than anyone else , and that's why there's no shortage of movies about this subject . 
the best of the bunch were probably made by the late polish director krzysztof kieslowski , who was obsessed with questions of fate and chance . 
these themes weave their way through many of his movies , including decalogue , the double life of veronique , and the triptych of blue , white , and red . 
however , they are most explicitly examined in a 1981 film called blind chance , where kieslowski presents the three different fates of one man after a minor action ( missing or catching a train ) changes the course of his life . 
in his autobiography , kieslowski on kieslowski , the director describes his attraction to the concept this way : " [the idea is] rich and interesting ? that every day we're faced with a choice which could end our entire life yet of which we're completely unaware . " 
while this approach has been the fodder for several notable dramatic films ( including , in a way , frank capra's it's a wonderful life ) , sliding doors is the first romantic comedy to plumb its depths . 
the " road not taken " approach isn't just a plot device , either . 
writer/director peter howitt expands upon both possible fates of a character after she just misses/catches a train . 
the audience watches , with ever-growing fascination , how this one event impacts upon every aspect of her life : her future career , where she lives , whom she loves , and whether she has a family . 
as her separate destinies diverge and then re-converge , she becomes two completely different individuals . 
that woman is helen , played by gwyneth paltrow as a long , dark- haired brit . 
one day , after losing her job as an advertising executive , she decides to return home in the middle of the day . 
the scene of the pivotal moment is a train platform . 
in scenario #1 , she just slips through the sliding doors before the train pulls out of the station . 
on board , she meets the cheerful , talkative james ( john hannah ) , a monty python fan who is taken with her beauty . 
minutes later , in her flat , she walks in on her lover , gerry ( john lynch ) , in bed with another woman ( jeanne tripplehorn ) . 
in scenario #2 , she misses the train and , shortly thereafter , is the victim of an attempted mugging . 
she doesn't meet james and fails to make it home in time to discover gerry's infidelity . 
juxtaposed one against the other , while sharing many places , cues , and characters , the two stories proceed in parallel from there . 
on one level , for viewers who enjoy pondering the workings of fate , sliding doors can be viewed as a deep and wonderful experience . 
but , for those who just appreciate a romantic comedy characterized by solid acting , a script with a few twists , and a great deal of genuinely funny material , sliding doors still fits the bill . 
one of its most obvious strengths is that it can satisfy many different types of audiences -- those who demand something substantial from their motion pictures , and those who could care less . 
it shouldn't come as any surprise that the acting , at least from three of the four leads , is solid . 
paltrow , who does double duty as two helens who are initially the same , yet gradually become much different , is the standout . 
she plays both of her roles effectively and believably -- the shy , insecure woman who stays with gerry and the liberated , platinum-blond who severs the ties to her old life and embarks on a new career with a new man . 
john hannah , known to most american viewers as the younger gay character in four weddings and a funeral , is instantly likable . 
john lynch , taking a break from movies about ireland's troubles , does a good job presenting gerry as a inept , selfish philanderer . 
only jeanne tripplehorn , who plays an over-the-top vixen , seems out of place . 
her attempts at broad comedy are occasionally jarring , and it's occasionally difficult to see her lydia as anything more than a plot element . 
one member of the supporting cast deserves special notice . 
douglas mcferran , who plays gerry's best friend , russell , is an absolute delight , stealing every scene that he's in . 
part of this is surely because he is given the best lines in the movie . 
on one occasion , he has a marvelous monologue bemoaning how advances in the telecommunications industry have trapped men into a life of monogamy . 
on another occasion , while laughing at gerry's plight with the women in his life , he comments , " being with you makes the wait for the next episode of seinfeld more bearable . " 
but it's not all in the dialogue . 
mcferran tears into this part with relish ; his performance becomes one of the most memorable aspects of a top-notch comedy . 
this is the first feature film for peter howitt , and he approaches the task with unimpeachable aplomb . 
the script is shrewd and inventive , combining wit , romance , and intelligent melodrama into a crowd-pleasing whole . 
sliding doors grants more than just a good time at the movies , however . 
for those who are so inclined , its central theme offers an opportunity to ponder some of the more philosophical questions about the workings of the universe -- all while having a good time . 
