a frequent error is the categorization of a terrorist as a soldier or a common criminal . 
a soldier commits acts of violence sanctioned by one nation-state against another . 
a common criminal commits acts of violence for personal gain . 
a terrorist employs random violence as a means to a political end . 
if the target nation does not affect the desired change in policy , the violence continues . 
it is the fear resulting from the fact that the terrorist may strike at anyone ( even total innocents ) , anywhere , at anytime that gives the figure his label . 
edward zwick's the siege explores the possibility of this kind of violence taking place right here in the united states . 
you'd think the opening bit was ripped right from the headlines . 
arab terrorists kill american citizens abroad , and the u . s . responds by retaliating against the sheik whom supposedly ordered the attack . 
however , unlike the real-life tomahawk cruise missile strike against bin laden's camp and manufacturing facility , the film version depicts special operations troops kidnapping sheik ahmed bin talal . 
in retaliation , the terrorists bring the fight to the new world . 
unwittingly involved is fbi assistant special agent-in-charge anthony hubbard ( denzel washington ) , who works out of the bureau's new york office at one federal plaza . 
while investigating a series of bombings in the big apple , he encounters cia agent elise kraft ( annette bening ) , also trying to uncover information . 
generally , the fbi is charged with problems inside the u . s . , while the cia takes care of problems in the international realm . 
even spies from other countries are off limits to the cia as long as they are in our country . 
hubbard therefore finds it highly unusual that an agency spook is nosing around what he considers his territory , but as the two form a tentative professional relationship , hubbard becomes more and more aware of an increasingly complicated series of allegiances and possibly illegal actions involving terrorism and the united states government . 
the original tagline for patriot games was , " there has never been a terrorist attack on american soil . " 
however true , it was pulled before the movie's release because it sounded too much like a dare . 
revisiting the scenario of foreign terrorists committing acts of violence in the united states , the siege is almost an invitation in itself , because it shows just what kind of turmoil could be produced if an effective terrorist network were to set up operations here in america . 
admittedly , the terror wrought upon new york is a bit excessive ( who's going to believe that a few bombs are going to cause new yorkers to jump at the backfire of a bus or to curtail their shopping by two-thirds ? ) , but the basic premise is still valid . 
i liked the fact that this film rises above the basic action-thriller fare of good guy g-men against bad guy terrorists by exploring some of the effects on society and law and order . 
it provides a very possible hypothesis that violent activity on the part of a few arabs would escalate into a series of hate crimes against the arab-american population , and that in an effort to find the terrorists , the civil liberties of the minority may be violated by the government itself . 
in fact , about halfway through the film , when the president authorizes the declaration of martial law within new york city , the liberties of all americans are put at risk . 
although it may actually be a side effect of a terrorist campaign , the demise of social order in america is a scary thought and a goal which would not be beneath many international terrorist groups . 
throughout , the film maintains a conflict between hubbard , who wants to use the fbi to pursue the terrorists within the letter of the law , and general devereaux ( bruce willis ) , who is in command of the army and of the mind that the greater good would be better served by suspending the law and pursuing the terrorists more forcefully . 
what results is a fascinating debate over the appropriateness and constitutionality of the declaration of martial law and the invocation of the war powers act , utilizing philosophy and historical examples to make points on both sides . 
it actually gets rather heady at times , but it's a credit to screenwriters zwick , lawrence wright , and menno meyjes that they don't underestimate the intelligence of the audience . 
i don't know if it's his tone or inflection or something else , but denzel washington has a way of spitting out dialog that makes whatever he says sound great . 
this , combined with his innate acting ability and his experience in playing the mid-level authority figure , makes his performance in the siege convincing and enjoyable . 
annette bening gives one of the more assertive portrayals of a female character i've seen recently , and the chemistry she shares with washington is palpable . 
it's somewhat unfortunate that her character's fortitude is broken at a certain point , but it allows us to watch bening play a little more range . 
bruce willis is pretty much relegated to a tough-guy role , always standing straight , and with a permanent scowl fixed upon his face . 
however , the tension that exists between devereaux and hubbard is a major drive behind the film's development . 
notable is tony shalhoub who plays fbi agent frank haddad , a lebanese immigrant . 
the role calls for evidencing both a kind of filial pride for his heritage , and contempt for those of his own race who might interfere with his integration into the american society . 
difficult to say the least , shalhoub does it with a naturalness you can almost reach out and touch . 
perhaps best known for his role as antonio the cab driver in the nbc sitcom " wings , " shalhoub gained notoriety for his dramatic abilities in the wonderful film big night . 
whereas denzel washington seems to be edward zwick's favorite actor ( he directed washington in glory and courage under fire ) , james horner seems to be his favorite composer . 
i therefore found it odd that zwick chose the prolific score-writer graeme revell ( seven films this year already ) over horner for the siege until i realized that this film contained a lot of arabian-themed music , and horner's record has shown more of a propensity for scores either neutral in ethnicity or irish-sounding at most . 
revell does a good job at providing appropriate music to punctuate key scenes and allowing the score to enhance the movie as a whole . 
it's nowhere near as intrusive as in some of the other films we've been getting throughout the year . 
missteps in the siege can be found in a couple of the excesses it takes . 
for example , it's pretty clear throughout that the film is meant to be more of thriller than an action flick . 
unfortunately , there's a scene where the army just cuts loose against some arab immigrants in a blatant display of firepower and explosions , obviously meant for the sole purpose of being eye-catching . 
in the middle of the city ( and against no real opposition ) , zwick even has the army use a cobra attack helicopter to shoot rockets into a building no farther than 50 feet from friendly troops . 
verisimilitude really goes out the window at that point . 
the film also gets a little preachy toward the end , focusing on the ability of different races to get along . 
a noble gesture , the film just puts the message across a bit too obviously . 
these flaws are glaring , but they don't detract too much from an otherwise good film that makes you think about issues you may not have considered since history class . 
