men in black is an explosive mix of science fiction , action , and comedy that hits the target in every possible way . 
although another alien movie , men in black succeeds in every way that independence day didn't , and towers above many other movies of its type . 
the brilliant acting , especially by tommy lee jones as agent kay , is also as good as it gets . 
director barry sonnenfeld , who was behind the camera for the addams family movies and get shorty , has crafted a masterpiece . 
the story behind men in black is just as interesting as you would want it to be . 
the men in black , or mib , are a top-secret governmental agency that is not known to exist . 
the mib are responsible for " saving the world from the scum of the universe " . 
a though job , indeed . 
the film opens with a truckload of illegal aliens ( the human kind ) being transported across the mexico border and into the united states . 
presumably , these " aliens " are all migrant workers . 
that is , until the mib show up and begin interrogating them . 
agent kay selects a particular suspicious worker and takes him away from the other local authorities to discover that he is not an illegal human alien , but a real extra-terrestrial alien . 
when the alien makes a run for it , agent kay is forced to eliminate the alien with one of the mib's very unique weapons , and after one of the local law enforcement officers witnesses this bizarre occurrence , agent kay is forced to use another very unique device on them . 
the device , described as " out of state " , eliminates the memory of anyone it is used on . 
>from here , we are introduced to james edwards , played very well by will smith . 
edwards , a police officer , is chasing a fleeing criminal . 
the criminal gives a very good chase , and at one point when edwards confronts him , the criminal pulls out a very different looking weapon that disintegrated when it hit the ground . 
edwards continues to chase the very athletic criminal to the top of a building , where the criminal informs edwards that he must let him go , because someone is after him . 
edwards doesn't take this seriously , but when the criminal shows very non-human characteristics and leaps off the building , he begins to wonder . 
back at the police station , agent kay shows up to ask edwards a few questions . 
he informs edwards that is was , in fact , a non-human that he was chasing , and that the gun he pulled out was definitely not man-made . 
he has edwards identify the gun , and asks edwards to come to the mib headquarters the following day . 
edwards arrives and finds that he is involved in a recruiting process , along with various other men who seem a bit more qualified than he . 
after goofing up for half of the time , edwards puts on a show at the firing range , and agent kay notes the reason why he feels edwards should be the man to join the mib : he chased down the " criminal " on foot , which is something that no one is supposed to be able to do . 
in the meantime , an upstate new york farm has a very close encounter . 
edgar ( vincent d'onofrio ) , owner of the farm , investigates a strange crash landing and is attacked by the inhabitant of the flying object , which presumes to jump inside edgar and use his body as a human transport . 
the " bug " , as he is called , is an intergalactic terrorist who has come to earth to attempt to kill two ambassadors . 
and it up to the mib , with newly recruited agent jay ( formerly james edwards ) to exterminate the bug and save the planet from intergalactic war . 
men in black delightfully combines fast-paced action with often hilarious comedy , which is usually from will smith , although tommy lee jones opens up his comedic personality in this film . 
the special effects are also very well done and are not the entire source of the plot , as in another big alien film from the past summer . 
screenwriter ed solomon , writer of super mario bros . 
and the upcoming x-men film , has surely struck gold with this story . 
all ages will enjoy men in black . 
it is an extremely fun film that you will want to see again . 
although it runs a very quick and speedy 96 minutes , the entire film from beginning to end is a non-stop adventure . 
the ending of the film , which ties up a few loose ends for one of the main characters , is also very well done . 
a sequel is already being planned , so there is more to look forward to ! 
