john von neumann , progenitor of the computer age and critically important mathematician on the manhattan project , pointed out long ago that there is a great way to explore the cosmos , even without recourse to faster-than light travel . 
you send out self-replicating robot ships which explore and radio back information . 
it may take decades , centuries , or millennia , but it can be done with achievable technology , and doesn't require a magical faster-than-light drive . 
in the fifties , british astronomer fred hoyle improved on this plan by suggesting that it would be better to radio plans for a complex computer and a program for it ; any civilization capable of receiving the transmission could build the computer , which would then engage in a real-time dialog with the aliens , exchanging information and technologies , and hopefully arranging to send back what it had learned . 
about thirty-five years ago , the bbc contracted with astronomer/writer fred hoyle and writer frank elliot to create the scripts for a mini-series called a for andromeda . 
afa concerned the reception of a hoyle transmission , the construction of a huge computer , the computer's analysis of life on earth , and its creation of an apparently human intermediary to facilitate communication . 
she was played with ethereally inhuman perfection by the then-unknown julie christie . 
audience response was so strong that the bbc contracted for a sequel , andromeda breakthrough , which played to equally high ratings . 
dennis feldman , whose previous credits include the golden child , has never been noted for coherent , well-structured movie scripts ; they start out great , and then disintegrate into a morass of chase and action , mitigated only by the presence of the obligatory beautiful girl . 
feldman writes good scenes , but has no idea how to tell a story or write a movie , even with a previous version to use as a model . 
now , in species , we have a mundane retread of the andromeda plotline , derailed by a preoccupation with removing the clothes from the leading lady and further ruined by a mediocre attempt to emulate several recent horror films in terms of splatter , gore , and chases . 
species features ben kingsley , who is completely wasted in a badly-written portrayal of a feebly amoral scientist . 
forest whitaker and alfred molina are also served poorly by the script . 
the species story is relatively simple ; we have been radioing information about ourselves and our dna out into space since 1971 , and have been receiving answers for two years . 
 ( note that , in the 1970's , we really didn't know diddly about the human genome structure , and were hardly in a position to radio out a set of blueprints for human beings . 
even today , all we can do is give information about dna and how it works , not a copy of human dna , because we don't have it analyzed yet . ) 
the answers we get from the unknown alien source are plans for recreating a member of the alien race , and doctor xavier finch , played by ben kingsley , is placed in charge of the attempt . 
the script begins to go off the deep end at this point , when the result is a beautiful young girl who can shape-shift into any of several ugly alien life forms . 
the first half of the film has something to offer , as " sil , " the alien girl , struggles with her multi-form existence , changing from beauty to lizard to giant cockroach and back again , all while trying to understand her own place in the cosmos . 
she seems oddly knowledgeable about human society , with glaring gaps where her social skills should be . 
her instincts are to mate and procreate , and some of the best scenes deal with her attempts in this area . 
escaping from her birth laboratory in utah , sil is pursued by a team of drafted civilians with orders to find her and kill her . 
she goes on an eating binge , spins herself a cocoon , and emerges as an adult , played by natasha henstridge , who goes a long way toward re-creating the sheerly inhuman beauty julie christie achieved in 1960 . 
the pursuers : michael madsen is an assassin/exterminator ; forrest whitaker is a convenient empath/psychic , just as though the u . s . government actually had such people on call . 
neither is able to do much with the writing and directing provided . 
whitaker's role seems to be aimed at making whitaker a male copy of star trek : the next generation's " counselor cleavage . " 
the other members of the strike team are played by marg helgenberger and alfred molina . 
kingsley and whitaker are both consummate professionals , too good to not work to the best of their abilities ; but the performances donaldson elicited from the rest of the cast are disappointing and bland , and it is apparent that the direction was a bit weak . 
h . r . giger's design for the main form of the alien creature is actually a bit boring when we finally get to see it , although previous digital effects were done quite smoothly . 
the main fault of species is lack of originality ; it starts out with a wonderful , albeit borrowed , premise , and then doesn't live up to it . 
all we get are chase scenes and a few nice sex scenes , with a few monsters tossed in . 
there is no buildup of tension and suspense , no climax worthy of the name ; species is just a sequence of " scare " scenes stuck together . 
the movie is carried by its chase and sex scenes , but not rescued by them . 
on the other hand , as an exercise in sci-fi action/ adventure , it certainly beats the ichor out of judge dredd . 
species earns an extra rating point or two for having ben kingsley and natasha henstridge on board , but by and large , it's fun only for those of us who really like this sort of thing . 
my personal rating is three stars , but knock one or two of those off if you don't enjoy pretty unclothed ladies and bloodthirsty alien monsters . 
mpaa classification : r ( violence , gore , nudity , sex , language ) 
stars : ben kingsley , michael madsen , forest whitaker , alfred molina , marg helgenberger , natasha henstridge directed by : roger donaldson produced by : frank mancuso jr . and dennis feldman typed by : dennis feldman cinematography : andrzej bartkowiak music : christopher young run time : 108 minutes aspect ratio : 2 . 35 : 1 from mgm , opens 7 july 1995 
