tempe mills cinema , az--this movie had us in non-stop stitches from beginning to end . 
all those promotional clips that have been on tv for the past month came from the first five minutes of the movie . 
if you thought they were funny , see the rest of the movie . 
it's hilarious . 
how does one go about making a movie about a couple guys whose only claim to fame is synchronized head-bopping on snl to exactly one song ? 
easy . 
write an interesting script around tried-and-true ideas , add some good lines and satire , and voil ? , you end up with an excellent , well-done , very entertaining flick . 
will and chris are idiot brothers forced by their father to work begrudgingly in the family flower business during the day . 
at night they pursue their life-long ambition to loose their virginity in failed attempts to get into the roxbury in beverly hills , ca , the only disco act worth going to . 
the only problem , the place is so popular and the waiting line so long that by the time the brothers make it to the front door , the roxbury closes , all the while bearing witness to guys with one-hundred-dollar bills and movie stars like richard grieco who get past the doorman without fuss . 
the script authors ( steve koren , will ferrell and chris kattan ) cleverly devised a way for our boys to get into the roxbury . 
their flower-shop van is rear-ended by richard grieco , who fears a law-suit and is surprised to see the idiots are too star-struck to think about the car accident they just had , but not about getting into the roxbury . 
grieco happily takes them in , even introduces them to the owner , which has the added benefit of enhancing the financial appearance of the idiot brothers in the eyes of a couple of gold diggers ( elisa donovan and gigi rice ) who bet their time and bodies on will and chris . 
what follows are some of the best slap-stick dancing routines ever . 
the music is superb , and could have only been made better had the producers added patrick hernandez's born to be alive . 
the choreography at times was a parody of an era gone by , for example , the bee gees and their stayin' alive . 
it is nostalgic for those of us who remember that far back , and the technique is a clever adaptation that worked well in forest gump . 
one of the funniest scenes is when the gold diggers discover that will 
and chris don't have any mone y , and dump both on the spot , even expressing violence and anger that they gave sex away . 
an art-imitates-life poke at shallow women . 
it's a scene that's an approximate parody of the vinegar's own rolf luedeke's editorial this week national organization for men ( nom ) replaces now . 
ted " unabomber " 
kaczynski , himself rejected for not having money , will identify well with this scene , if he ever watches the movie . 
of course , the script wouldn't be complicated enough without adding molly shannon , the girl next door who has had a crush on will since they were kids , and who will has had an aversion to in quest of good-looking disco blondes ( proof that men will turn down perfectly good women when there are bay watch babes always lurking nearby ) . 
nevertheless , will's father wants him to marry molly anyway , but thinks idiot chris is standing in the way and sends him into guest-quarter exile . 
during the wedding ceremony , will's heart isn't exactly into getting married , and when his brother appears on the balcony with a ghetto blaster and more head-bopping music , will thinks worse of the knot-tieing idea and runs to chris . 
definitely an snl parody of the graduate where katharine ross changed her mind for the screaming dustin hoffman in the church balcony . 
i found this scene a riot , however , it went over brandi's head -- she was born seven years after the graduate first appeared . 
the scene has a good punch line when molly shannon marries , instead , the step-in buddy/weight-lifter ( who looks like he could pass for the son of gary busy ) and who has been lusting for a good-looker for a long time , but ready now to take anyone . 
more art-imitates-life stuff -- not even muscles can substitute for money in the real world . 
the idiots' mother is played by loni anderson , whose barbie-doll looks 
don't play well anymore ( she's a bit old ) , and whose cleavage looks like someone botched a tracheotomy too low down . 
i recommend this movie for anyone who wants to have a lot of fun or in 
need of a lot of laughs . 
go with a date . 
brandi laughed non-stop , as i 
did , and a deaf-mute might have concluded i was tickling her continuously for 105 minutes . 
