there's a thin line between satire and controversy , and mike nichols ( the birdcage , wolf ) has directed a sharp and very honest look at a us presidential election . 
based on the book written by " anonymous " ( actually former " newsweek " writer joe klein ) , john travolta plays governor jack stanton . 
but he doesn't actually play stanton . 
he plays bill clinton ; just the same as emma thompson no doubt plays the first lady and billy bob thorton is the campaign manipulator james carville ( although the credits will of course say otherwise ) . 
the film is taken from the perspective of henry burton ( adrian lester ) , a morally correct and somewhat hesitant new advisor to stanton . 
he searches for justice and dignity in the ugliest possible situations , and whether it be keeping the history of his boss' pants under wraps or contemplating digging up dirt on another politician , he approaches his work with a keen desire to skillfully serve his country and his fellow workers . 
richard jemmons ( billy bob thorton ) and daisy green ( maura tierney ) team up with henry as the would-be president's advisors , and hire lesbian veteran libby holden ( kathy bates ) as the campaign's eccentric " tougher than dirt " incriminator . 
together they face all sorts of sexual allegations , the irritatingly discourteous media and other witty politicians in the election race . 
in its satire and controversy , primary colors is a similar film to wag the dog : they both are not afraid to wipe their noses in the nitty-gritty and take a bold look at something that will never has honesty as a virtue . 
but whereas wag showed us how much affect a few people can have on the media , primary colors is much more concerned with fleshing out it's characters , letting us understand what they want and why , and making us truly appreciate the humanity and rectitude that they graciously represent . 
seeing john travolta play bill clinton so confidently and justly is enough to make the film more than worth a look . 
and the rest of the cast also make superb performances - adrian lester sharply portrays the intellect of henry whilst kathy bates is perfect as the robust and energetic libby holden . 
at occasions , you can't help but feel that these terrific characters are going to waste . 
there are long slabs of time where john travolta ( unquestionably the most interesting to watch ) is missed from the screen ; and since it is awkwardly structured as henry's story we are often forced to watch scenes that perhaps are not so necessary to the central plot - or even the point of the film . 
having said that , make no mistake - primary colors is always enjoyable to watch . 
but frequently we have to ask ourselves - exactly what are we watching ? 
most of the first half of its duration is a lightheaded look at melodramatic confrontations that seem so genuine we cannot help but laugh , but the way primary colors chooses to finish tackles aspects that are very contrary , and almost unsuitable , to the rest of the film . 
but as i mentioned before , there is a thin line between satire and controversy - and for the most part , primary colors delivers an entertaining indulgence of political matters combined with a far-from-overpowering look at winning the public's opinion . 
although at occasions the film may jump around a little too freely , focus is never lost on how important and vulnerable the subject matter really is . 
thankfully , it is clear to make the distinction on what is entertaining movie cosmetics and what is a provocative documentation of something so really it's scary . 
