mike myers , you certainly did throw us a ? frickin' bone here in what you call ? the biggest austin powers adventure yet . ' 
austin powers : the spy who shagged me is the sequel to the 1997 smash comedy austin powers : international man of mystery . 
many are skeptical about sequels , saying that the sequel is never better or as good as the original , but austin powers : tswsm goes beyond the first film . 
austin powers : the spy who shagged me stars mike myers in three different roles . 
he reprises his role as the title character , austin powers , the shagadelic spy whose body was frozen in 1967 , and unfrozen in 1997 to stop his long time nemesis dr . evil , also played by mike myers , from destroying the earth . 
tswsm leaves off where the original stopped , with dr . evil's ? frisch's big boy' space capsule floating through space . 
dr . evil returns back to earth by ejecting from his capsule , plotting to go back in his time machine to the year 1967 , in which he plans to steal austin powers' " mojo " , what keeps austin going with spy talents . 
upon his return to his secret lair , which is now a starbucks coffee shop , dr . evil learns that his evil henchman , which includes the returning robert wagner as number 2 and mindy sterling as frau , have created a 1/8 size clone of dr . evil , which is later named mini me . 
the evil mini me replaces scott evil , played by seth green , as dr . evil's son in the madman's mind , because dr . evil thinks of scott to be only " quasi-evil . " 
dr . evil has always wanted a son that is evil just like him , and now he has one . 
dr . evil tells mini me , " you complete me , " in a loving manner . 
dr . evil loving ? 
wow ! 
mike myers' third role is as fat bastard , a scottish henchman of dr . evil's , who is sent to steal the mojo from austin powers' frozen body . 
austin powers learns of dr . evil's trip back into the 60s , and uses his own time machine to take him back to 1967 , to try to save his mojo before fat bastard gets a hold of it . 
once arriving in the year 1967 , austin travels to his " pad " , his smashing home/dance club , where he meets felicity shagwell , played by heather graham , a cia agent who is willing to help him in his journey to stop dr . evil . 
as the film progresses , hilarious one liners are thrown at us , mainly by dr . evil , for example , " don't go there , girlfriend ! " 
to the president of the united states . 
many witty gags take place , note the entire tent scene , and just plain , funny scenes which are so stupid- they're funny come a dozen per fifteen minutes . 
take for example , scott evil going on the jerry springer show complaining about how evil his father is . 
the way austin powers : tswsm uses its humor is clever , throwing a hilarious scene at you , followed by five minutes of one liners , followed by another outrageous scene , so you never stop laughing . 
there was honestly not one moment in austin powers : tswsm where i wasn't laughing . 
the last film that i laughed so hard in , was well , austin powers ! 
it is apparent that mike myers knew how funny this film was while writing it . 
the film even makes fun of itself in a line , something along the lines of , " it's funny how england and southern california look nothing alike . " 
tswsm was filmed in southern california , but was supposed to take place in england . 
i can tell you one thing- he is having a lot of fun with this enormously popular character , which is all over television , newspapers , magazines , and the movie theaters . 
i believe that dr . evil got more attention in the tswsm than austin powers did . 
dr . evil provided more laughs , more memorable moments , and more interesting dialogue than austin did this time around , who seems to missing the funny touch that he had in the first film . 
i felt that austin really did have his mojo taken away , but from screenplay writer mike myers , not fat bastard . 
also making a great addition to the series is mini me , who is played by verne troyer . 
even though the midget actor is 30 years old , he is adorable by dr . evil's side constantly . 
the first austin powers film had barely any sentimental quality , such as lack of character development , barely any detailed plot characteristics , and barely any good acting , but austin powers tswsm actually shows some quality behind the frequent humor . 
mike myers , with his three roles , acts as eddie murphy did in the nutty professor , disguising himself completely in one of the roles . 
 ( fat bastard ) all three characters are different , and mike myers does do a good job handling each one of them . 
heather graham made a great addition with her talent to tswsm , and does a much better job than elizabeth hurley did , who gave a very flat performance in the original , speaking her lines without any feeling or emotion . 
speaking of hurley , she can be seen in tswsm for a few brief moments . 
hopefully , graham tags along for future austin powers adventures . 
the bottom line- a groovy sequel that mike myers put all of his mojo into writing . 
