buffalo ? 66 is a very rarely known movie that stars vincent gallo and christina ricci . 
gallo plays a very troubled man , who was sent to jail for gambling . 
once out of jail , he must visit his parents , who he told he was married . 
the truth is he isn't married . 
to try to impress them , he kidnaps a girl ( christina ricci ) from a tap dancing class to act as his wife . 
the film is very cheaply made , and it shows it throughout a lot of the movie , but you don't need money to make a good film . 
buffalo ? 66 doesn't always stay with the realistic concept , and sometimes goes through outrageous events . 
gallo's parents , played by angelica huston and ben gazarra , are two very strange individuals . 
the mother plays a football fanatic and the father plays a quiet man with odd habits . 
gallo and ricci arrive at his parent's house , and some extremely funny scenes take place within the house . 
ricci's performance during the scene at gallo's parent's home are very well done . 
there is constantly humor involved in the interesting dinner table scenes . 
the way the movie was filmed in this particular part of the movie were interesting and creative . 
they seemed very mediocre , but they worked out just fine . 
gallo's character is developed very well . 
the impression that he is very depressed and confused is very clear . 
gallo gives a performance that makes you believe what the character is going through . 
his character goes through many , many problems , just like many people in real life . 
this character seemed very realistic to me . 
ricci's character is funny and different . 
she doesn't care much that she has been kidnaped , in fact , she falls in love the man who kidnaped her ! 
ricci is a very wonderful actress and she is starting to get the recognition that she deserves . 
buffalo ? 66 isn't all laughs though . 
many scenes are very dramatic and depressing . 
gallo's character was so realistic , he was extremely disturbing . 
some scenes are supposed to come off as funny , but they actually seemed sad and real to life . 
the film sometimes drags along , not giving much material . 
i really would have liked to see gallo's parents a lot more , and i would have liked to see the characters developed more . 
overall , buffalo ? 66 isn't as good as some people put it up to be . 
the bottom line- a few hysterical scenes save this film from sinking to the bottom . 
