imagine this . 
you're given a sword and a shield and very basic , minimal training . 
a man you don't know tells you that this will be the last day that you will live . 
you are thrown into an arena with thousands of spectators wanting to see you die . 
you frantically monitor several closed doors which , in seconds , will release vicious enemies prepared to destroy you . 
you watch as the innocent friends you made in the last few days are murdered in cold blood . 
if you are lucky enough to survive this chaos thrown at you , you know you're going to have to do it all over again tomorrow . 
eventually know matter how strong or skilled you are , you're going to die . 
this is the life of a gladiator . 
you'll never have to be a gladiator and after seeing ridley scott's powerful gladiator , you'll be thankful for that . 
with his new film , scott has returned cinema to the fascinating age of the ancient roman empire . 
and like those preceding it , spartacus and ben hur , gladiator has nearly everything going for it - a strong lead actor , a wonderful supporting cast , eye-catching special effects , and a great script . 
since the two aforementioned films came out before the prime target viewers of gladiator ( teenagers to thirty-year-old males ) were around , a whole new genre may just be reborn and revisited . 
>from a weak beginning , the film starts off extremely gloomy and inauspicious . 
rome's best general maximus ( russell crowe ) , who has helped the empire conquer nearly everywhere they have attempted , is currently ( in the year 180 a . d . that is ) waging a war against germania . 
scott shoots the gory battle in an awkward style , similar to that of saving private ryan but much less effective . 
it's blurry , in slow motion , and the sound is muted . 
as soon as this artistic method began , it was hard to tell what was what and who was who . 
it's a good thing scott stops this after the first twenty minutes or else gladiator would have been torture to watch . 
instead , the general swears he will get out after this battle . 
he wants to go back to his family and his crops , he wants a quiet life . 
but , unexpectedly , he gets anything but that . 
the dying emperor of rome , marcus aurelius ( richard harris ) , decides to have maximus appointed new emperor of rome once he dies . 
he asks maximus to restore the republic by giving more power to the senators . 
all of this does not go well for aurelius' son , commodus ( joaquin phoenix ) who was expecting his father to name him the new emperor . 
jealous and upset , commodus kills his own father , names himself emperor , kills maximus' wife and son , and attempts to kill maximus . 
but maximus is able to escape his own death and vows to kill commodus and fulfill marcus aurelius' wishes . 
now a slave , the only way he can win his own freedom and complete his goal is to become a winning gladiator , who eventually are released for their success . 
a story of betrayal and promises , gladiator is more than just a mindless action flick . 
you actually care about the characters , sometimes even the evil villain commodus , who is just a young man as determined to make rome one way as maximus is determined to make it the other way . 
phoenix plays his character brilliantly . 
think of commodus as the percy wetmore ( of pant-wetter the green mile ) of the roman empire - a whiny , sleazy , " respect-me-because-my-father-was-a-good-man " brat who hates when he's not the center of attention . 
every scene we see commodus , he's either crying or he looks like he has just been crying . 
phoenix has definitely matured as an actor since to die for , and gladiator shows he's more than just river's little brother . 
crowe is also excellent as the film's grisly-faced hero . 
maximus is one of the few characters in recent cinema who actually has emotions . 
this guy actually acts like a anyone in his situation would act , he's no invincible superhero who only blurts out one-liners , he ( believe it or not ) acts like a human being ! 
the rest of the cast , including richard harris , djimon hounsou , walter hill , derek jacobi , and connie nielsen are also first rate . 
ridley scott , using outstanding special effects , has brilliantly recreated the roman coliseum , the loudness of the roman mob , and the city of rome in general . 
the visuals are breathtaking and voluminous , like a cleopatra of the year 2000 . 
the costuming is also wonderful from the detailed shields and armor to the exquisite dress of the upper-class politicians . 
gladiator is another movie you have to see on the big screen to get the most out of the experience . 
along with u-571 , action fans should have plenty to see in theaters this week and should expect much more excitement to come this summer of 2000 . 
