in _daylight_ , sylvester stallone breaks no new ground , cinematically speaking , but he covers familiar territory quite well . 
yesterday , as i was going about my business in the university bookstore , i noticed this stand with these _daylight_ movie posters on it . 
i had never heard of the movie , so i stopped by to check it out . 
it turned out that they were giving away free passes to the movie for people who had or applied for the credit card they were offering . 
so , i shrugged , thought , " hey , they probably won't give me the card anyway , and i could always use a free movie , " so i signed up . 
all in all , i don't think i got that bad of a deal , either . 
rob cohen , who has previously brought us such films as _dragon : the bruce lee story_ and , more recently , _dragonheart_ ( gee , i wonder if he likes dragons for some reason ? 
you think ? ) , now brings us a very nicely executed disaster picture , with fx by industrial light and magic , about the after-effects of an explosion that collapses a busy tunnel between new york and new jersey . 
sylvester stallone plays kit latura , who is essentially a carbon copy of the character he played in _cliffhanger_ : a paramedic on the outs because he made a mistake that got people killed . 
when the crisis hits , he is in the right place at the right time and takes it upon himself to go in and get everybody out . 
there are other similarities to _cliffhanger_ , too ; perhaps the only real difference is that _cliffhanger_ had a villain , where _daylight_'s bad guy is mother nature . 
in fact , had the two movies been made in hong kong , this might have been titled _cliffhanger ii_--it bears the same relationship to that film that most hk film " sequels " do to their predecessors . 
the first half-hour of _daylight_ is setup . 
subplots are woven , and the mechanism of the disaster is assembled . 
we meet all the important people . . . toxic waste disposal truck drivers ; a young , frustrated , jilted , rejected playwright ; a family struggling to stay together ; an older couple and their dog ; a truckload of prisoners ; an ad agency executive ; a tunnel police officer ; stallone ; and others . 
we watch the trucks trundle toward their destination ; we watch stallone and so many others driving toward the tunnel for their various reasons . 
and then , thirty minutes into the film , _boom_ . 
and it's a big one . 
>from there on in , it's sly stallone to the rescue . 
and rescue he does , enduring batterings , beatings , falls , repeated immersion in 34-degree water , explosions , mud , rats , and constant setbacks , before going on to save the day , sly-style . 
again . . . there's 
nothing new here . 
and yet there doesn't need to be . 
the fun of _daylight_ is not in the story but in the execution . 
the special-effects are first-rate , thanks to industrial light and magic , and the ensemble cast works well together . 
once the film hits its stride , it carries the viewer right along to the finish , with very few jars along the way . 
this review is copyright 1996 by christopher e . meadows . 
permission granted for distribution through rec . arts . movies . reviews and all associated archival . 
permission granted for free redistribution via cyberspace as long as this message remains attached . 
all other rights reserved to the author . 
