a cinematic version of one of john irving's novels is always cause for celebration even if , as in the case of " simon birch , " the treatment is merely " suggested by , " rather than strictly based on , the book . 
suggested means that irving , author of the acclaimed " the world according to garp , " sold the rights to his novel " a prayer for owen meany " to the disney machine for $1 million , but wouldn't grant them permission to use either the title or any of the character names . 
that's an odd decision--irving claims it's to protect both himself and the novel--but it's one that doesn't unduly harm the finished product . 
irving's books are rich and complex works , full of intriguing , colorful characters . 
 " a prayer for owen meany " is no exception ; it tells the story of an unusual boy--called simon birch in the film version--who is uncommonly small in stature and possesses a high-pitched falsetto voice , " like strangled mice . " 
simon believes himself to be " god's instrument , " placed on this earth to somehow effect god's plan . 
simon is played by ian michael smith , who suffers from a rare enzyme disorder known as morquio syndrome which , among other things , prevents bones , ligaments , and joints from developing normally . 
smith's debilitating disease makes him an obvious physical choice for " simon birch " ; however , the producers unwisely favored form over function--smith's acting abilities are limited at best . 
another drawback is that in the book , simon's condition is described the way irving describes any of his characters--in careful , loving detail . 
watching " simon birch , " however , creates a different feeling altogether ; the audience is forced into a voyeuristic relationship with the character , surely something irving would not have intended . 
simon himself tends to be too cute and irritating , a combination of smith's rookie status as an actor and the precocious one-liners he's forced to deliver , courtesy mark steven johnson , the film's director and screenwriter . 
fortunately , simon birch isn't the real star of the film that bears his name . 
simon is more of a catalyst , allowing his co-stars to shape the story , and the actors who fill those roles to turn in outstanding supporting performances , saving the film from an obsequious , manipulative destiny . 
first and foremost is joseph mazzello ( " jurassic park " ) , who is nothing less than remarkable as simon's best friend , joe . 
mazzello turns in a wonderfully layered performance for a 14 year old , ripe with laughter , pain , and tears ; he is certainly an emerging talent . 
ashley judd positively beams in her role as rebecca , joe's single mother , and oliver platt is warm and tender as her boyfriend , ben . 
david strathairn and jan hooks play the town's reverend and sunday school teacher respectively and their contributions uphold the high standards set by the others . 
there's even a surprising yet effective uncredited cameo performance from . . . 
well , that would be telling . 
perhaps " suggested by " the novel is the appropriate way to go after all , since " simon birch " only focuses on one chapter , one year , of simon's extraordinary life . 
the film also changes the book's ending to one that is more melodramatic , yet necessary given simon's lot . 
the flavor of irving's original novel remains , however--the passions , friendships , and insecurities that come with a change of seasons to the little community of gravestown , maine , and the engaging oddballs , both big and small , who reside there . 
