gere , willis , poitier chase each other around the world 
the jackal a film review by michael redman copyright 1997 by michael redman 
when the soviet union imploded , the western countries lost their shadow . 
with the united states friendly with the russians , we no longer had an entity to blame for the world's problems . 
this showed up in hollywood films as the communist government was no longer the easy bad guy . 
it's time to rejoice because we've found our new villain . 
now it's no longer the russian government who sends killers out into foreign lands , it's the russian _mafia_ . 
a perfect solution , it combines the dread of organized crime and the still-present uneasiness with the former eastern block countries . 
best of all , the villains are still foreigners : fear of the other always plays best . 
so it is a crime lord in moscow that sends legendary hitman the jackal ( bruce willis ) to assassinate a highly placed us government figure in retaliation for the death of his brother during a nightclub raid . 
the fbi is at a loss as to how to protect the target from someone they're not sure even exists . 
coming to their rescue is former ira operative declan mulqueen ( richard gere ) who is temporarily released from prison to assist fbi agent carter preston ( sidney poitier ) and russian major valentina koslova ( diane venora ) . 
mulqueen's ex-girlfriend basque terrorist isabella ( mathilda may ) is the only person who has seen the elusive jackal . 
 ( presumably there is an exclusive international terrorist club somewhere where the three met . ) 
the film follows two parallel tracks as the jackal prepares for his $70 million hit and mulqueen attempts to locate him while preston makes sure that the irishman doesn't slip away . 
crossing numerous borders and donning various disguises for both himself and his mini-van , the killer is always one step ahead of his pursuers . 
being very loosely based on the same book the 1973 thriller " the day of the jackal " , comparison between the two films is inevitable . 
there is no doubt that the original is the better movie , playing the story for suspense rather than the current action/adventure . 
as a mystery , " the jackal " has enough holes in it to ruin the tale , but if you can accept it for what it is , there's entertainment to be had . 
holes ? let's see ? a pivotal clue for mulqueen is so obscure that he must possess psychic powers to pick it up . 
for a 20-year veteran that can command the big bucks , the jackal is an incredibly poor shot . 
the final scene between gere and willis occurs in a location that should be mobbed with police , but it's just the two of them . 
willis' disguises usually look like bruce willis and are just as interesting as val kilmer's in " the saint " . 
 ( and lest you misunderstand , that's not a compliment . ) 
but the three stars are fun to watch . 
it's good to see gere in something other than a business suit . 
willis has a mixed history in picking projects , but his characters are always watchable . 
poitier is by far the superior actor , but has limited screen time . 
the problems in logic are flaws , but don't ruin the experience . 
occasionally there are movies that transcend their blemishes . 
this is one of them . 
[the appeared in the 11/20/97 " bloomington voice " , bloomington , indiana] 
