well i'll be damned . . . 
the canadians can make a good movie . 
the world is coming to an end . 
we don't know why or how , but apparently there is no way to stop it . 
the world has had this information for months , as most of the rioting and other assorted chaos has passed and governments have shut down operations . 
yet for a handful of toronto citizens , life goes on . 
they aren't going crazy or attacking people in the streets . 
instead they are simply preparing themselves for the end . . . 
some engaging in activities they've always wanted to do , some gathering with family and friends , and others just seeking to be alone . 
these people's lives however all intersect during their final six hours . 
writer-director-star don mckellar has crafted a highly unique and emotional film . 
all of the main characters are compelling as they try and do whatever it is they need to do on their last night on earth . 
craig ( callum keith rennie ) tries to fulfill all his sexual fantasies , a gas company employee ( david cronenberg ) calls every customer letting them know the gas will be flowing until the very end and thanks them for their business , and patrick ( mckellar ) just wants to be by himself but isn't having much success . 
even minor characters keep popping up where you least expect them to , tying everyone even closer . 
things seemed a little hokey towards the beginning of the film , but ultimately everything comes together nicely ( although it's not a happy film . . . 
some moments are understandably gut-wrenching ) . 
the story is enhanced by some unexpected humor and very realistic performances , particularly from sandra oh , whose character is just trying to get home to her husband before the end . 
i have absolutely no problem that the reason for the end of the world is never given , nor does it bother me that the world is ending at exactly 12 midnight ( in toronto anyway ) . 
but i do wonder why the sun never sets . 
come midnight , the sun is still shining brightly . 
maybe the sun is crashing into the earth . . . 
who knows . 
also , it's comforting to know that in mankind's final moments on the planet , people will still gang up on the street for the sheer purpose of pushing over a car or a bus ( that's not a shot at this film mind you . . . 
i know people are just stupid and truly would be out in the street tipping over cars ) . 
last night is available on dvd from universal home video . 
it contains the film in fullscreen format and includes the original theatrical trailer . 
[r] 
