in 1912 , a ship set sail on her maiden voyage across the atlantic for america . 
this ship was built to be the largest ship in the world , and she was . 
she was also build to be one of the most luxurious , and that she was . 
finally , she was built to be unsinkable and that unfortunately she was not . 
to get a ticket for this voyage you either : spent a life's savings to get to america to start life anew , were part of the upper class and had the money to spare , or finally were lucky enough to have a full house in a poker match by the docks like jack dawson . 
jack dawson makes the trip , and happens to be at the right place at the right time . 
rose dewitt bukater , a first class passenger , climbs the railings at the aft of the ship with thoughts of jumping . 
thus is started a tale of romance and intrigue , and a tale of death and tragedy . . . 
this movie is about a tragic event that took place a great many years ago , an even that should not be taken lightly as any other bit of historical trivia . 
the movie titanic shows what happened , maybe not with a 100% degree of accuracy , but it still shows it very realisticaly . 
now the titanic is both a story on its own and a backdrop for a story . 
it serves as both admirably , brining forth an interesting story that although simple in its most simple premise is very captivating . 
this movie is very emotional simply because of what it is , but that alone is not enough . 
the story is brought out with a certain style that makes is so much more emotional and so much more effective . 
movies such as this will not be forgotten all too quickly and unfortunately then are not something that is produced by hollywood with any great frequency . 
the attention to detail that was paid is remarkable . 
the whole premise for the telling of the story is interesting , with the showing of brand new footage from the wreck of the titanic adding much flavor to an already good movie . 
part of the magical chemistry behind this story is the acting , and for this movie its extremely good acting from the whole cast . 
the performances put in by the main stars is something to be admired . 
the characters were played out so memorably that both leonardo dicaprip and kate winslet should receive at the least nominations for their roles . 
looking at the acting done in the movie it seems as if they aren't acting but are actually the characters in the movie . 
the casting for the movie could really have been better , in my humble opinion that is . 
one character that will most likely not be mentioned by any other review or commentary about this film is that of the ship itself . 
yes , you read correctly , the ship is a character . 
how is the titanic a character ? 
you ask well simple , a ship had a certain character about it and as most sailors and boats men will tell you . 
this character is everything about the ship from its specifications to its luxuries and the titanic was no stranger to this . 
mr . cameron brings the ship to life in an almost literal sense . 
all this adds to the movie in a certain way that most hollywood productions cant seem to grasp . 
now , to produce the effect that i mentioned above and to sink the ship itself are feats that are accomplished by special effects wizards . 
the effects in this movie range from marvelous costumes to beautifully rendered scenes of the ships sinking . 
in some respects you cannot tell that the effects are there , you simply think that what you see is what happened or what is happening ( if your imagination is good ) . 
the technical wizardry done in this movie is just spectacular and actually getting new footage from the wreck of the titanic is unique . 
the movie will leave you amazed at the effects , and that is a feat since there is no monsters or aliens in this movie , just humans and an oversized ship . 
the movie will amaze you and it will pull on your emotions , the theater that i went to had a few people leaving with tears in their eyes . 
now that is not a feat accomplished by most movies , now the fact that the tragedy actually occurred is brought home with something of a punch , i wont spoil the ending and say what happens regardless it is an interesting movie from beginning to the very end . 
the historical value of this movie is quite high , and honestly is something that should be watched for the sake of seeing it and seeing the tragedy , for it is extremely well done . 
the method of telling the story is also good , maybe not totally unique but effective none the less . 
regardless of anything mentioned above this movie is a grandiose production and the sheer size of the project undertaken is something to be marveled at . 
the simple fact that the movie is smashingly successful at what it aims to achieve is just astonishing . 
if you get the chance to see this movie go ! ! ! 
it might not be the best movie in the world . . 
but it ranks fairly highly and is well worth the time spent watching it . 
during none of the 3 hours and 13 minutes of the movie are you bored nor does your attention wane from the movie . 
