what do you get when you combine clueless and dumb and dumber ? 
to answer the question , you get director david mirkin's new comedy romy and michele's high school reunion . 
romy white ( mira sorvino , mighty aprhodite ) and michele weinberger ( lisa kudrow , tv's friends ) have been inseparable buddies since they graduated from sagebrush high in 1987 . 
however , when former classmate heather mooney ( janeane garafolo , the truth about cats and dogs ) confronts romy about the 10 year reunion , she is astounded that she forgot . 
watching pretty woman for the um-teenth time , they are reminded of how they wouldn't let julia roberts' character shop in the expensive stores because of her appearance . 
then it hits them : they are not successful . 
what are she and michele going to do ? 
romy's instant solution is lose some weight off their already slender frames , " bag a couple of boyfriends , " and get jobs . 
romy says this will be easy , but michele retorts that if it is so easy , why hadn't they already done it . 
robin schiff's script keeps the show moving with some nice one-liners . 
one of the best has romy reminiscing about her life's battle against the bathroom scales . 
 " i was so lucky getting mono , " she says looking at her thinnest high school picture . 
 " that was like the best diet ever . " 
the casting for the film is so perfect that one begins to suspect that the leads were chosen and then the script was developed . 
romy and michele use their high school yearbook to discuss the caste system at their high school . 
the film's editor david finfer dissolves the stills from the yearbook to live action flashbacks which makes the past come to life . 
at sagebrush high , the hierarchy consisted of the a group ( cheerleaders ) , the b group ( drama club ) and the c group ( nerds ) . 
romy and michele were none of the above . 
ridiculed as " the weirdoes , " they were constant targets for abuse . 
even though they were quite attractive , they had so much fun being together that they did not care about the others . 
that they make their own outlandish clothes helped keep the wall around them . 
complementing romy and michele's lightness , is janeane garofalo as the dark , pudgy heather mooney . 
heather , who invented a new cigarette paper for cigarettes with " twice the taste in half the time for the gal on the go , " has the success and the money that they would like . 
heather was even more of an outsider than they were in high school . 
garofalo's one-dimensional role is only a side show . 
this is a two person film with the other characters there merely for the two leads to bounce their lines off of . 
the genuine chemistry between sorvino and kudrow makes for a sweet and sometimes touching comedy . 
they have so much fun acting out their parts , their enjoyment spreads to the audience . 
 , 
