ingredients : james bond , scuba scene , car controlled by cellular telephone 
synopsis : warped media tycoon elliot carver ( jonathan pryce ) plots to start a war between britain and china in order to boost ratings by using a 'stealth ship' to fire a captured british missile at the city of beijing . 
super-agent james bond ( pierce brosnan ) uses trick gadgets , pluck , and charm in order to foil carver's scheme . 
this time bond teams up with top female agent wai lin from china ( michelle yeoh ) . 
the film contains fights , chases , gadgets , and comedic moments . 
opinion : it does not have a casino scene or a ski scene , but tomorrow never dies is nevertheless a solid , enjoyable bond movie . 
it neither stands out nor disappoints . 
in old bond movies bond sometimes teamed up with american cia agent felix leiter . 
tomorrow never dies introduces a new character in the form of chinese agent wai lin . 
like leiter's character , wai lin would be a sure bet for a cameo in a later bond movie . 
stars : michelle yeoh was born a leo in the western zodiac in the year of the tiger on the asian astrology calendar . 
i dont believe in horoscopes . 
but at an airport i once browsed an astrology book with a section on leo tigers ( lts ) . 
 " leo tigers prefer enough solitude to grow at their own pace . 
lts are unbelievably courageous when facing adversity . 
the lt is also classy , and has an excellent sense of refinement , but she sees herself as an adventurer , and prefers freedom of movement rather than flashy status symbols . 
this person loves family and friends with a fierce loyalty . 
she delights in siblings , nephews , nieces and extended family - - but she must have her personal freedom to come and go as she pleases . 
sometimes annoyance at injustice drives her to take up one or two causes . 
in love life , the lt has an unfortunate mental block against committing to any partner who is less powerful than she . " 
in real life , michelle yeoh is asia's top female star . 
like jackie chan , she does her own stunts . 
she was born in malaysia - - a country of many languages - - and her primary language ( the language she speaks in her sleep ) is english . 
she was taught malay in school , and learned cantonese from bilingual parents . 
as an athlete michelle represented malaysia internationally . 
she enjoyed squash , diving , swimming , and rugby . 
she studied ballet at the royal academy of dance in london , but switched to drama after a spinal injury . 
in 1983 she won the miss malaysia pageant - - without really intending to , since a family member had entered her in the contest without her knowledge . 
notoriety from the contest led eventually to a movie career as an action heroine . 
michelle has survived a divorce with asian retail tycoon dickson poon ; a nearly fatal stunt accident falling from a freeway overpass which put her in the hospital for three months , and ; a retirement from the movies . 
her comeback from retirement , supercop ( 1992 ) became the top grossing film in asia that year . 
it is not clear what michelles martial arts style is , but it may be a theatrical version of wing chun . 
of her character wai lin in tomorrow never dies , michelle says , " wai lin is the first bond girl who is on a par with bond , someone who can match up with him mentally and physically . " 
my own opinion is that casting michelle yeoh as agent wai lin was an excellent choice . 
