>from the man who presented us with henry : the portrait of a serial killer ( 6 . 5/10 ) 
comes a wild tale set within the elite and white trash of florida's south coast . 
plot : guidance counselor ( dillon ) is accused of raping one of his students . 
she happens to be the daughter of one of the wealthiest women in florida . 
the counselor is brought to court on the charges , as another white trash girl ( campbell ) , also joins the rape finger-pointing club . 
as the story unfolds , we find that many things aren't exactly as they seem ( that's as much as i could say without ruining anything ) . 
critique : good little flick that slows down at certain points , and runs a tad long , but generates enough twists and turns to keep most people interested throughout . 
mind you , i could see many people not liking it because it takes " one too many " twists and turns , but hey , i happen to like that kind of thing . 
and besides , the twists and turns in this movie managed to remain within the realm of believability ( or scathingly close to ) , and even " explained " many of its turns with a showcase of missed scenes during the credit crawl at the end of the film ( do not leave the theatre before you see the credits . . . it 
really does clear up some stuff ! ! ) . 
other than that , the acting was good , with campbell transforming her " good girl stereotypical " role into a pot-smoking , goth-looking white trash chick out for a good time . 
denise richards ( from starship troopers ( 7/10 ) fame ) solidifies herself as hollywood's jelly-donut pinup girl of the moment , and proves that all breast implants needn't lead to lawsuits . 
bacon is solid , and so is dillon ( while continuing to prove his inability to age to the whole wide wondering world ! ! ) . 
sprinkle the story with a bunch o' shots of alligators peeking through the swamp waters , bacon showing the world the size of his ding-dong ( do we really need to see this ? ? ) , a couple of lesbian kissing scenes , and a menage-a-trois , and you've got yourself a decent time at the movie theatre . 
on the down side , the soundtrack was not as prominent ( or slick ) as i thought it would be , and theresa russell ( real name : theresa paup ) seems to have lost her way in every which way possible . . . . ooooh , 
i almost forgot bill murray's exquisite role as the down-trodden lawyer who agrees to defend dillon in court . 
murray actually added that extra little spice of humour that allowed this film to affirm its position as a quirky little noirish tale of sex , greed and mystery . 
little known facts : neve campbell specified a non-nudity clause in her contract ( she's also born in guelph , ontario . . . go 
hoser ! ) 
director john mcnaughton says he deleted a scene that would have shown matt dillon and kevin bacon showering together , as it was gratuitous . 
kevin bacon plays in a band with his brother , called the bacon brothers , is married to actress kyra sedgwick , and has a game based on him called " six degrees of kevin bacon " . 
