capsule : the best place to start if you're a jackie chan newcomer . 
roars along , never stops for breath , and frequently hilarious . 
to talk about jackie chan as a " stuntman " is to miss a million things . 
jackie is not only one of the most accomplished and fearsomely unafraid physical adepts on the screen today , but also a very funny guy . 
he reminds me of the way arnold schwartzenegger * used * to make me laugh -- he's funny just standing there , copping a look . 
supercop has jackie making us laugh , scream , duck , root , and gasp for breath , often all in the same scene . 
it's actually the third in a loosely related series of movies , each with jackie playing kevin chan , a hong kong policeman who has a knack for getting neck-deep into trouble and then karate-kicking his way out of it . 
 ( the others are also worth seeing . ) 
it's a little slow to start , but once it gets moving , it's a field day . 
the movie has a fairly sophisticated plot for movies of this kind . 
kevin is tapped for a dangerous dea assignment to be accomplished in mainland china , which requires him to collaborate with the attractive ( and ass-kicking ) chief fo chinese security ( played here by the ever-enjoyable michelle yeoh ) . 
there's a fun chemistry between the two of them , especially in an early scene where she tries to brief him and he keeps making wondering comments about how great she looks in that uniform . 
kevin is assigned to help spring a known gangster from jail -- all undercover , of course -- and have him lead the two of them to a noted drug boss . 
the drug boss , however , has problems of his own : his wife's on trial for many of his own crimes , and she's got the key to an account with all of his drug funds . 
this means , of course , endless trouble -- not the least of which is that kevin bumps into his girlfriend while he's out in the field , and she sees him with this other woman , and . . . but that's one of the movie's unique pleasures : the way it crosses from action to comedy effortlessly . 
action . there is , of course , non-stop action in this movie -- everything from one-on-one kung fu to all-out gun battles to a sppedboat with eight engines ( ! ) 
outrunning the hong kong coast guard . 
there is also a virtuoso climax , which features , among other things , jackie danging from a ladder tied to a helicopter , a wrong-way freeway chase ( which requires michelle to do an awesomely difficult handstand stunt ) , a fight on top of a moving train that also involves the 'copter as well as a motorcycle . 
you get the idea . 
this is to action movies what a burger with everything on it is to fast food : quick , enjoyable , filling . 
watch it with friends . 
when they stop making movies like this , the world will be a tad greyer . 
