uncompromising french director robert bresson's " lancelot of the lake " achieves the exact opposite effect of sir thomas malory's " morte darthur . " 
instead of enshrining the legend of king arthur and his knights of the round table , it dethrones them by revealing arthur as a weak , ineffectual leader and the knights as a group of jealous , bickering men who failed to live up to the legends prescribed to them . 
chivalry has no place in " lancelot of the lake , " except as that of a dying ideal . 
bresson begins his tale as the knights of the round table are returning , decimated , after failing merlin's command to retrieve the holy grail , the mystical cup that was filled with christ's blood . 
bresson immediately gives us his impression of the essential meaning of the grail quest : bloodshed and failure . 
the opening sequence is a series of clumsy , disjointed fights amongst anonymous knights -- a head is hacked off , a stomach is impaled , a skull is split open , skeletal remains hang from trees , and burning bodies smolder in the ruins of a flaming house . 
since the film starts with camelot in near-ruin , and takes only an hour and a half to arrive at its inevitable conclusion , it doesn't carry the grand , tragic resonance of other arthurian films . 
we never get to see camelot at the peak of its power , therefore there is no real downfall to witness . 
but , then again , it is not the name of camelot that is evoked in the title of the film . 
rather , it is lancelot , and bresson is more interested in the internal battle within his heart , than the external downfall of a kingdom . 
lancelot has always been a tragic figure in the arthurian tales , and bresson uses him as the central figure to explore the battle between the spirit and the flesh . 
the greatest of all knights , he was flawed only in his love for arthur's wife , queen guinevere , and it was that illicit affair that eventually caused the downfall of camelot . 
even when lancelot attempts to end the affair with guinevere ( laura duke condominas ) , he only finds himself falling back into her arms against his better judgment . 
he knows it means the destruction of the idealized kingdom , but he is powerless in his passion . 
when sir mordred ( patrick bernhard ) accuses lancelot of the affair , other knights , including sir gawain ( humbert balsan ) spring to lancelot's defense . 
it is this battle within the knights that is the eventual undoing of the round table ; the flesh wins out over the spirit , and the consequences are dire . 
bresson is an intensely personal filmmaker most interested in the interiors of men's hearts and minds . 
 " lancelot of the lake " is filled with his particular trademarks : a stripped-down , minimalist style , flat , expressionless dialogue , and a grand use of natural sounds in place of music . 
he uses background music only twice in the film , during an opening narration segment and during the opening credits . 
the music here is a heavy drumbeat and accompanying bagpipes , but the rest of the film is scored with natural sounds that punctuate the film's thematic elements : the incessant clanking and creaking of heavy armor , the neighing of horses , the rhythm of hooves beating down dirt roads , and the natural chirping and whispering of the forest . 
like most of his other films , bresson employed nonprofessional actors who recite the dialogue in emotionless , flat voices . 
all the actors he used in " lancelot of the lake " had never acted before , and with the exception of patrick bernhard , they never acted again . 
never once do they raise their voices or put any emphasis on a given word . 
instead of using vocal inflection , bresson strove to create emotion through images . 
in some ways , this technique works ; in other ways , it doesn't . 
the final montage of arthur's men battling each other is quite marvelous , and the final image of the knights in shining armor reduced to a literal scrap-pile sums up the entire film in one moment . 
however , other times bresson's uncompromising methods are distracting and questionable . 
for instance , during an important jousting contest , bresson films the majority of the action so that the only things visible are the horses' legs . 
he does this repeatedly , opening each shot with the same few notes from a bagpipe and the raising of a different flag . 
while there might be symbolic value in this , the resulting experience of watching it can be bothersome . 
nevertheless , " lancelot of the lake " is a fascinating cinematic experience boldly made by a master filmmaker . 
bresson's style may not be for everyone , but one has to respect his strength as an artist . 
by re-evaluating the arthurian legends and making them his own , he turns " lancelot of the lake " into something rare in modern cinema : a truly personal film . 
