when it comes to the average teenage romantic comedy , i expect negative reviews from critics left and right . 
predictable , unoriginal , and forgettable will most likely be the three adjectives to haunt the down to you's and the drive me crazy's released by the dozens these last couple of years . 
what i really look for in this kind of movie is the entertainment value while i'm sitting in the theater . 
am i enjoying myself ? 
is this a comfortable break from my week of finals ? 
this is why i have given films like final destination or road trip high marks ; i had a party of a time wasting my money on something i won't remember next week . 
so last week i opened up the new york times - and , no surprise , boys and girls got a negative review . 
daily news ? 
negative . 
reelviews ? 
negative . 
epinions . com ? 
negative . 
this was nothing new . 
american pie , final destination , road trip didn't get such hot reviews and i loved those guilty pleasures . 
same goes for she's all that , a formulaic but enjoyable pygmalion adaptation that got unjustly pounded . 
since boys and girls reunites she's all that director robert iscove and actor freddie prinze jr . , i predicted d ? j ? vu al over again . 
but , still curious , i asked around my school and from the one or two people who had seen it , the reactions were far from positive . 
i had made up my mind ; i'll catch it on video or cable in a couple of years . 
but , soon after , following a series of unexpected events ( we couldn't get into shaft because it is rated r ) , i found myself watching boys and girls . 
whoops . 
boys and girls is about a " nerdy , smart " boy named ryan ( prinze jr . ) and a " popular , flirt " girl named jennifer ( claire forlani ) . 
briefly meeting as pre-teens and now attending the same college , the two bump into each other so many times that eventually they become best friends . 
but in the movies , a male and a female cannot be friends without having that nagging feeling of attraction for each other . 
with advice from their roommates ( amanda detmer , jason biggs ) , ryan and jennifer attempt to discover the true meaning of their relationship . 
the film definitely lives up to the dreaded three adjectives - and mindless entertainment is nowhere to be found . 
i could hardly sit through the 93 minute running time for several reasons . 
the dialogue is probably the worst i have ever seen in any movie , mainly because the whole movie depends on the boring script and the ridiculous words these characters use is what hollywood thinks kids can relate to . 
it is almost offensive . 
an example of an insightful conversation : 
 " you're dumb . 
dumb , dumb , dumb , dumb . " 
 " no . " 
 ( followed by a mandy moore-esque tune background ) 
 ( well it's not as bad as wing commander i guess ) 
the supporting cast is also painfully useless . 
detmer and biggs stand in the way for anything interesting to happen with their own boring , pointless subplots . 
and although this is supposed to be from both perspectives of the human sex , prinze jr's ryan dominates the screen while forlani's jennifer simply acts as a dilemma for him to work with . 
we never learn anything about jennifer which is a shame too because forlani is the only actor to bring any life into her character . 
teenager or not : you'll hate this movie , i guarantee it . 
maybe i should rent she's all that again . 
is it really as good as i think it is ? 
