as you should know , this summer has been less than memorable . 
with a total of 4 decent films , it's not a surprise that these big budget failures keep appearing . 
with that said , you can pretty much predict what my opinion on " the 13th warrior " will be . 
the film is based on the michael crichton " eaters of the dead " , in which ahmed ibn fahdlan is banished from his country for looking at a wife of a king . 
after tarveling for many months , he comes across a gang of norsemen , who are forced to pick 13 men to protect a town from mythical monsters who travel in the fog . 
so , they start picking men , and are left without 1 , thus ahmed is choosen . 
so far it sounds interesting right ? 
not when all of this takes place in 15 minutes . 
after that , they basically run around killing . 
that alone shows how much a script is needed for a film , because once your story is introduced , you have the rest of the film to start developing it . 
obviously that's not the case here . 
even if you are going into the film expecting an action packed adventure , you will be disappointed . 
since all the action takes place in fog , it is constantly hard to see a scene clearly due to those circumstances , and to poor camera work . 
can't the camera men sit still ? 
i'd like to actually watch a film in focus , but again , they failed to deliver that as well . 
the film moves on and on until the point , where you can care less about anything but the popcorn you're eating . 
with corny dialogue , that the characters laugh at for some odd reason , a script that goes nowhere , dull action sequences , a predictable ending , and worst of all weak characters , there's basically nothing to like here , except for maybe the set designs . 
that's the only thing that honestly caught my interest . 
when i heard that john mctiernan , the director , wanted his name kept out of the project , that made me wonder why ? 
well now i know . 
crichton's greed forced mctiernan to edit his finished product , which led to a big arguement . 
what's there to argue about anyway ? 
the film couldn't be saved , no matter how much they spent or casted . 
seeing films like the haunting and big daddy making money , i wouldn't be surprised to see " the 13th warrior " become a hit . 
please do me a favor and save your money at all costs , or else you will be lost in the fog , like the film itself . 
