this movie is based off the wildly popular video-game series of the same name . 
before this film , the game had a few spin-off cartoons- which were ok . 
but the idea of doing a movie is insane . 
it should have been animated , if it should have been done at all . 
instead the people do the best they can with a talented cast . 
yet it still fails . 
the plot is completely different from the game's plot- i'm not complaining about that . 
the story involves the mario bros . having a plumbing business in brooklyn and having to compete with a rival company . 
eventually they find a construction site by their nemesis , which happens to be enviromentally un-safe . 
so , due to luigi's ( john leguizamo ) girlfriend - princess daisy - they go and investigate . 
they get transported to a blade runner-esque world lead by king koopa ( dennis hopper ) . 
somehow a plot dealing with all the dinosaurs being mutated and transported to an alternate futuristic mega-city jumbles in . 
the plot is fine- better than the movie deserves . 
the acting is ok . 
this seems to be more of a visual film . 
the special effects are good , especially on the robotic yoshi . 
however the film drags and is no fun . 
and it leaves itself open to a sequel , which probably won't ever be made . 
this movie begins sort of promising , but ends up leaving a weird taste in your mouth . 
so if you want to watch a sort of odd movie starring the excellent dennis hopper , then watch super mario bros . : 
the movie . 
you could do worse . 
but you could definitely do better . . . 
 . 
street fighter : the movie ( 1995 ) starring : raul julia and jean claude van-damme 
this movie was based off of a series of never ending sequels to a game called street fighter 2 . it has all the characters from the game in a reasonable plot . 
it is more like a " movie " than it should be . 
yes , it's watchable . 
raul julia does a good job , considering this was his final film . 
while the game had non-stop fighting sequences , this movie is a hodge-podge of action scenes and flashy sets and costumes while trying to show off a plot at the same time . 
does it work ? 
sort of . . . 
the plot involves the evil shadowloo organization run by m . bison ( raul julia ) . 
guile ( jean claude van-damme ) takes his troops to attack bison's main base in an attempt to liberate the innocent villages he has taken over . 
in a short amount of time , the movie introduces several characters well . 
it catches your attention . 
but it ultimately seems like a showcase for fans of the game so you can point out things like " there's chun li ! ! " 
or " look at that fire-ball ryu did at vega " . 
it hits the bases by presenting the characters in a plot with good sets , but goes no further . 
this movie needed more action in the first place . 
the action scenes that are here are short and not very exciting . 
if you like light-hearted action flicks , or if you liked the game , watch this one . 
it is even worth watching if you want to see raul julia's last performance , or if you can't get enough of van damme . 
other than that , you could find better action flicks . 
 . 
