there is a rule when it comes to movies . 
a sequel is never as good as the original . 
there are very few exceptions to this rule , and texas chainsaw massacre : the next generation is not one of them . 
now if you also take into consideration that the original chainsaw massacre was a really bad movie , and that this isn't even the first sequel to it , you have a recipe for a very painful viewing experience . 
don't be fooled by the presence of up and coming talents matthew mcconaughey ( a time to kill ) and renee zellweger ( jerry maguire ) . 
they made this movie before they were stars . 
judging by their performances they also made it before they took any acting lessons . 
it's a wonder they ever worked in hollywood again after appearing in this turkey . 
apparently the producers of this film realized just how bad it was , because it sat unreleased for years until someone decided that they might be able to capitalize off the success of mcconaughey and zellweger . 
apparently the two young stars were none too happy about this thing ever seeing the light of day . 
and i don't blame them , they would have been better off if this had been some sort of porno flick starring the two of them . 
unfortunately for them it is a horror film in which zellweger plays your typically stupid horror film character . 
while mcconaughey plays a guy who wears a mechanical brace on his leg that he controls with a television remote control . 
 ( hey , don't say i didn't warn you . ) 
to make matters worse , leatherface , the chainsaw wielding maniac , who was never the scariest of psychopathic killers at the best of times , has now become a full blown cross-dresser , and spends the entire movie in drag . 
there is a plot to this movie but it isn't worth mentioning . 
let's just suffice to say that a group of teenagers are in the typical wrong place at the wrong time and are left to the mercy of remote control man ( mcconaughey ) and his lipstick wearing chainsaw revving half-witted sidekick . 
man , i can't get over just how bad this movie is . 
this film has absolutely no redeeming qualities . 
even the obligatory topless babe shot wasn't enough to hold my interest for more than 2 seconds . 
the writing is bad , the direction is even worse , but both of those things look good in comparison to the acting . 
this is the sort of movie that they should make people in prison watch . 
a guarantee you , if criminals thought that they would be subjected to this film they would never break the law again . 
