arnold schwarzenegger has been an icon for action enthusiasts , since the late 80's , but lately his films have been very sloppy and the one-liners are getting worse . 
it's hard seeing arnold as mr . freeze in batman and robin , especially when he says tons of ice jokes , but hey he got 15 million , what's it matter to him ? 
once again arnold has signed to do another expensive blockbuster , that can't compare with the likes of the terminator series , true lies and even eraser . 
in this so called dark thriller , the devil ( gabriel byrne ) has come upon earth , to impregnate a woman ( robin tunney ) which happens every 1000 years , and basically destroy the world , but apparently god has chosen one man , and that one man is jericho cane ( arnold himself ) . 
with the help of a trusty sidekick ( kevin pollack ) , they will stop at nothing to let the devil take over the world ! 
parts of this are actually so absurd , that they would fit right in with dogma . 
yes , the film is that weak , but it's better than the other blockbuster right now ( sleepy hollow ) , but it makes the world is not enough look like a 4 star film . 
anyway , this definitely doesn't seem like an arnold movie . 
it just wasn't the type of film you can see him doing . 
sure he gave us a few chuckles with his well known one-liners , but he seemed confused as to where his character and the film was going . 
it's understandable , especially when the ending had to be changed according to some sources . 
aside form that , he still walked through it , much like he has in the past few films . 
i'm sorry to say this arnold but maybe these are the end of your action days . 
speaking of action , where was it in this film ? 
there was hardly any explosions or fights . 
the devil made a few places explode , but arnold wasn't kicking some devil butt . 
the ending was changed to make it more spiritual , which undoubtedly ruined the film . 
i was at least hoping for a cool ending if nothing else occurred , but once again i was let down . 
i also don't know why the film took so long and cost so much . 
there was really no super affects at all , unless you consider an invisible devil , who was in it for 5 minutes tops , worth the overpriced budget . 
the budget should have gone into a better script , where at least audiences could be somewhat entertained instead of facing boredom . 
it's pitiful to see how scripts like these get bought and made into a movie . 
do they even read these things anymore ? 
it sure doesn't seem like it . 
thankfully gabriel's performance gave some light to this poor film . 
when he walks down the street searching for robin tunney , you can't help but feel that he looked like a devil . 
the guy is creepy looking anyway ! 
when it's all over , you're just glad it's the end of the movie . 
don't bother to see this , if you're expecting a solid action flick , because it's neither solid nor does it have action . 
it's just another movie that we are suckered in to seeing , due to a strategic marketing campaign . 
save your money and see the world is not enough for an entertaining experience . 
