mr . bean , a bumbling security guard from england is sent to la to help with the grandiose homecoming of a masterpiece american painting . 
the first two words should have said enough to let you know what occurs during bean's trip to la , but if they didn't look out because you are in for a rather interesting if not odd ride . 
heck depending on your humor you might end up laughing through the whole flick . 
either way look out america bean is coming . 
well , what can really be said about this movie , there is very little discernible plot . 
that much is not hard to grapple with for it is a slapstick comedy . 
it achieves that goal rather admirably , but because it is that , the plot is just screaming for help . 
the whole premise that the movie is based on is to say the least flawed . 
the movie had its funny moments but there was no real story line other than something that could be thought up on a whim and carried through and in many causes ad-libbed as you went . 
don't go into this movie expecting and theatrical masterpiece . 
but if this form of humor floats your boat then you will truly enjoy this movie , even if you don't like slapstick style humor you will end up laughing because something's are just so stupid . 
the movie goes out and accomplishes what it aims , or so it seems . 
now when you look at the acting in this movie you have to think about two things , first was there any real acting and how hard is it to act in the slapstick manner . 
well , there was no real acting in this movie but some of the slapstick wasn't the easiest i am sure . 
i have to concede that mr . atkinson's acting in this movie is well done . 
although the role isn't too demanding the slapstick is . 
i think that the character could have had a bit more dialogue , it would have added quite a bit to the overall effect of the movie . 
now the rest of the actors in the movie , bad acting and poor casting . 
i think that the role opposite bean could have been better , just seemed wrong for the movie . 
a different actor might have done a better job of it but i wont presume that wasn't what was trying to be achieved . 
one thing that i must say , simply to get if off my chest is that i think transferring a sitcom to tv usually produces rather disastrous results . 
tv shows should do just that stay on tv , it will probably save some producers from getting ulcers . 
i can only think of a couple examples of tv going to the big screen effectively , the best known of those would have to be star trek . 
bean seriously fails to accomplish anything close to what that series gone movie achieved . 
now another thing that i have to state again is this movie has narrowed its target audience fairly tightly . 
the form of humor in this movie will not be liked by most people , these people will think like i did that this movie is stupid and pointless . 
but if you like the tv show you might actually like this movie . 
but to be on the safe side i am opting to recommend you save your money and not go to see this movie . 
there are many movies that are truly worth seeing unlike this one . 
