a suave , cool , collected , rich , uptight bad guy = cliche . 
a clumsy criminal oaf to add to the laughs = cliche . 
a bad guy who owns a wild animal = cliche . 
a crooked , chauvinistic law enforcer type = cliche . 
at an intense moment , our main character tries to get away , but the car has trouble starting = cliche . 
complaining about cliches = cliche . 
ok , ok . 
so we always hear about cliches . 
but if there was ever to be a prime example , the real mccoy is it ! 
not one uttered word , not one frame of film , not one character in this whole movie isn't a cut and paste example of everything we've ever seen . 
they might as well use this as a training film : " how to make a bank robbery film in the 90's " . 
karen mccoy ( kim basinger ) is a bank robber who just got out on parole after a six-year stay at the state prison . 
she wants to make things right and go straight , especially with the fact that she has a six-year old son out there who doesn't even know she's alive . 
aware of mccoy's bank robbing expertise , sniveling bad guy jack schmidt ( terence stamp ) uses the same six-year old to coerce mccoy into returning to her past . 
he wants mccoy to pull off an elaborate heist of 18+ million dollars at the same bank she got caught trying to rob six years earlier , which , by the way , is somehow due to schmidt . 
and if she refuses ? 
who knows what he'll do to the kid . 
 ( cue sinister laughter ) 
this movie is so pathetically pitiful that it's hard to know where to begin . 
the aforementioned cliches are brutally abundant . 
i can't stress enough how every single element , whether it be a character , the dialogue , a plot " twist " , etc . , is so damn generic that you'll wonder if * anyone * is working behind the scenes , let alone in front of the camera . 
basinger is absolutely vacant . 
and where do they get off trying to make us emotionally attached to her ? 
here's someone that spent their time robbing banks , and now as she heads onto the street , we're supposed to feel sorry for her . 
as she confronts her son , who doesn't even know who she is , are we supposed to break into tears ? ? 
especially when neither basinger nor zach english , who plays the kid , has any depth or emotional-radiance whatsoever . 
i suppose i should mention val kilmer . 
yeah , that's right - he's in it ! 
quite sadly too , seeing as how i can discuss everything about the movie and never mention his name . 
and he got second billing ! 
to be fair , i will admit that kilmer had potential in his role as the bumbling criminal wannabe j . t . 
barker . 
unfortunately the script doesn't allow much room for improvement , and when his character is used like bookends ( he never shows up in the middle of the film ! ) , 
we have no time to appreciate what he might have brought to this project . 
the real mccoy just can't keep it's head above water , and soon , * very * soon , sinks into a cliched mess of movie . 
the actors are like dummies being moved about by an unenthusiastic puppeteer , and the dialogue , particularly schmidt's trite dialogue , falls like the niagra . 
this is definitely one to avoid , folks . 
the real mccoy is anything but ! 
