vegas vacation is the fourth film starring chevy chase and beverly d'angelo as the heads of the hapless griswold family . 
as with the other three films , their two children , rusty and audrey , are played by a revolving series of actors . 
this time ethan embry and marisol nichols fill the roles . 
also back , is cousin eddie ( randy quaid ) , the slob relative who seems to bring problems wherever he goes . 
in vegas vacation clark griswold ( chase ) decides to take the family on vacation to las vegas so that he and wife ellen ( d'angelo ) can renew their wedding vows . 
it is at this point when comedy is supposed to ensue . 
apparently the filmmakers thought that putting the griswolds into las vegas would be so funny on its own that they wouldn't bother to write any jokes into the script . 
at least that's the way it looks when watching this turkey . 
about half way through vegas vacation i began to have serious doubts as to whether there would actually be a single laugh in the entire film , since there had been none up to that point . 
by the end of the movie i had actually snickered a couple of times , and i had smiled at a couple of gags . 
i might add that none of the funny ( and i use the term loosely ) moments came as a result of anything chase , d'angelo or quaid were involved in . 
they might as well have stayed home for as much as they contributed to this film . 
the two best things in this movie were ethan embry and marisol nichols as the griswold kids , who manage to have a couple of their own adventures . 
rusty becomes a vegas high roller , providing most of the film's best moments . 
every time chase and quaid were involved in a gag , it just made it more and more apparent that they should have stopped this series after the third film . 
which brings me to the best moment of the film . 
the griswolds are driving down the highway and holiday road ( the theme from the original vacation ) begins to play . 
christie brinkley and her red ferrari ( also from the first movie ) drive by . 
it was a cute moment , but all it really did was remind me just how funny the first film had been , and just how far that this series has fallen . 
too bad . 
