 " return to horror high , " wants to be a couple different types of movies at once . 
the film tells the story of a low-budget horror movie being filmed at the closed-down crippen high , a school where a group of serial murders took place five years before . 
but what the cast and crew don't know is that a real killer , maybe the same one that was never apprehended , is going into action again . 
on one level , " return to horror high " is a slasher movie , and it is at this level that it works the best on . 
watching the film , which was made in 1987 , i couldn't help but take notice that the killer's costume was almost identital to that of the ghostface in , " scream , " and " scream 2 . " 
on another level , the film wants to be a slapstick comedy , and there are many hints of this throughout . 
unfortunately , most of these jokes fall flat . 
and the last thing the film wants to be is a " behind-the-scenes " look at an exploitation film being made . 
the only problem is that , while much of it is supposed to be from the movie itself being made , no cameras are shown filming it , thus making it far more confusing than it had to be . 
and to top it all off , the " twist " ending makes very little to no sense whatsoever , and so we are basically left with feeling as if we wasted our time . 
there are story developments that are beyond ludicrous , and plot holes you could drive a winnebago through . 
if you see the film , or have seen it , you'll know what i mean . 
the premise of " return to horror high , " is admittedly pretty crafty , and i liked the atmosphere of the school , which is where the whole thing takes place . 
but director froehlich , judging from this movie , is an incompetent director , except for being able to film the seldom suspeneful scene . 
well , come to think of it , there is only one scene that is actually scary , and it has to do with two actors being locked in a room as the killer tries to break in . 
but other than that two-minute distraction , " return to horror high , " is certainly no great shake . 
note : look for george clooney in a supporting role as one of the actors on the film . 
and strangely enough , he is the first character to get the ax . . . literally . 
