synopsis : a novelist struggling with his latest work buys a weird brain with a protruding eyeball encased in a jar . 
the brain exerts its evil influence upon the novelist and his secretary , while his wife disapproves . 
meanwhile , a loan shark in need of a shave tries to leave his profession . 
comments : why is this movie called possessed by the night ? 
it's hard to speculate . 
most of this film takes place during the day , and the only thing possessing anyone is an icky , pulsating , bubbling brain thingie in a jar . 
in case you haven't picked up on this yet , possessed by the night is a bottom-of-the-barrel " thriller " ( i use the term " thriller " loosely here ) which is really cheap and bad . 
the plot , which sounds like a cheesy pulp science fiction story from the 1950s , actually serves one purpose : to exploit nude women as often as possible . 
writing a movie review for a film like this proves oddly challenging . 
there's really not much to say . 
the acting is lousy ; although , occasionally , the attempts at acting are so absurd that they garner a chuckle or two from the audience . 
most humorous is frank sivero , who plays murray , the novelist's agent . 
he is so horrible in this role that one can't help but be amused . 
the plot sucks . 
nearly half the film is devoted to a loser loan shark who wants out of the profession , even though he has only limited relevance to the movie as a whole . 
the dialogue stinks . 
a loan shark , for instance , tells another how much he loves bimbos , which is something the audience really doesn't need to know . 
everything about possessed by the night is second rate , even the film credits . 
as the names of the not-so-talented film crew scrolled by at the end , joseph scales came up , credited as being " assistsant to foley artist . " 
someone could have used an editor ! 
to be honest , the film is basically an excuse to flash frontal nudity and show some sex scenes . 
playboy playmate shannon tweed , after all , is the star here . 
i suppose that if one wanted this sort of thing , he would like this movie . 
why did i give this turkey two stars and not one ? 
as a bad movie , it is unintentionally funny enough to keep someone passingly interested in the film . 
if you feel possessed to see possessed by the night , however , i'd recommend you exorcise this impulse and watch something else . 
