in life , eddie murphy and martin lawrence play two young men wrongfully convicted of murder and sentenced to life in prison . 
after about an hour of watching this movie , you begin to realize how their characters feel . 
fortunately , for audience members there's a chance to escape the nearest exit . 
this , undoubtedly , is eddie murphy's worst movie and that's an accomplishment . 
remember the golden child , harlem nights ? 
compared to life , they look like citizen kane . 
life is long , predictable , foul-mouthed and only intermittently funny . 
its 100-minute running time feels like 100 years . 
robert ramsey and matthew stone's script basically consist of murphy and lawrence referring to everyone around them as " motherf . . . s " or " n . . . . . 
s . " 
you lose count how many times both those obnoxious , offensive words are used . 
and if that all it takes to write a script , than any illiterate jackass can sit at a word processor and compose a movie . 
but , like life , it will probably stink . 
to be honest , the screening audience surrounding me in the theater yucked it up . 
but these were the same people who howled at all the flatulence and fat jokes as well . 
life is as sophisticated as a belch . 
it's crude and stereotypical . 
years ago , movies stereotypically portrayed blacks subservient , second-class people , good for being only maids and servants . 
for the most part , the lot of blacks and other racial groups have improved . 
but a new , more insidious stereotype is creeping into movies . 
in many recent films , through actors such as murphy and chris tuckers , blacks are presented as fast-talking , conniving , scam artists or hip-hop , gun-crazy , sex-crazed youths . 
both sets of caricatures are demeaning . 
and the fault does not rest with the actors . 
they have to eat , too . 
it is with the people who write the scripts , the studios who green-light the projects and the audiences who accept these portrayals without protest . 
life's only redeeming virtue is the artistry of makeup legend rick baker who flawlessly ages murphy and lawrence into 90 year olds . 
otherwise , life is an embarrassment , a blot on the resumes of those associated with it . 
see it at your own risk . 
