what would inspire someone who cannot write or act to pen and star in a movie ? 
a better question , what would inspire a studio to produce said movie ? 
if you have an answer , let me know . 
foolish , the new movie written by and starring master p is a jaw-droppingly horrible film , one with no redeeming value socially , cinematically or otherwise . 
comedically it has some potential , but only in its stand-up comedy moments , which i can turn on comedy central for . 
master p stars as fifty dollah' ( beat that ! ) as a mobster ( i think ) who is trying to start a comedy club/act with his little brother foolish ( eddie griffin ) . 
but the two of them have to deal with an angry mob boss ( played by andrew dice clay , for the very first time entertaining ) , a stubborn club owner and family problems ( the latter in foolish is a perfect example of roger ebert's " idiot plot , " if everyone here wasn't an idiot , there would be no problem ) 
so what does foolish have to offer beside a bunch of idiotic character names ? 
not a hell of a lot . 
as i have mentioned , master p cannot act or write . 
he acts like the rapper that he is . 
the occasional despair that his script requires him to exhibit is excruciatingly forced , as are his warm and fuzzy scenes with his little bro . 
as for his script -- well , i suppose he delivers what one would expect from a musical artist with no previous screenwriting experience . 
if you haven't yet figured it out , that is not saying much . 
co-star eddie griffin ( really the star of the show ) is quite a different story . 
the fact of the matter is that griffin , whose most significant screen outing to date is probably the mildly successful tv show malcolm and eddie on the fledgling upn network , is an extremely talented comedian , stand-up and otherwise . 
he has much in common with chris tucker ( rush hour , money talks ) in how quickly and effortlessly his speech flows from his lips . 
he spouts profanity with impressive dexterity ( to the extent which that can be done ) , and while i hope that does not become his trademark it works in a few scenes in this movie . 
and indeed , i laughed at a few stand-up scenes here , but from a feature-length movie i expect more . 
foolish provided me with no reason to care for these characters . 
every scene which has any potential for dramatic impact is effectively diffused by either a stupid joke ( in a scene where tension escalates between the two brothers , foolish blurts out towards his jewelry-sporting sibling " you lay one hand on me and this cemetary is going to be a gold rush " ) or something even more idiotic such as foolish smashing his own car ( to which i said , a bit too loudly for the occasion " huh ? " ) after getting slightly upset with his wife . 
believe me when i say that there is nothing in foolish that warrants parting with your hard-earned $8 . 
you'll get more laughs from watching 30 minutes of comedy central or any virtually any sitcom if you don't have cable . 
eddie griffin fans may enjoy this derivative ( although offensive ) yarn , but everyone else should stay the hell away . 
&#137 ; 
