starring william baldwin ; cindy crawford & steven berkoff all right , the first problem that fair game has is the casting of supermodel cindy crawford in the lead role . 
not that cindy does that bad , it's just that anyone who watches this film knows from moment one that that little bit of casting was not done because of cindy's extraordinary acting skills , but for her extraordinary ability to look drop dead gorgeous in any situation . 
and in fair game most situations tend to find cindy either soaking wet or very hot and sweaty , but i'm sure that that is just a coincidence , no doubt that these situations were essential to the plot and the fact that cindy looks great wet , well , that's just a happy coincidence . 
sure . 
william baldwin isn't a bad actor . 
unfortunately , he just doesn't demonstrate it at all in this movie . 
i'm not sure if that's because most of his lines were just so hokey , or if he was trying to make cindy's acting look good . 
if it was the latter , it worked . 
cindy does a surprisingly good job here in her first movie . 
which is not to say that she doesn't have room for improvement . 
although to be fair to cindy , her lines were kinda cheesy in places . 
so right about now you are no doubt asking yourself what sort of movie does cindy crawford , arguably the most beautiful woman on the planet , chose for her foray into the world of cinema ? 
well , i'm glad you asked that question . 
cindy plays a lawyer who by some convoluted plot twists becomes a target for former elite kgb agents . 
why woud they target someone as likable as cindy , you ask ? 
by the end of the movie you won't care . 
the story is so contrived it isn't funny . 
anyway after cindy gets blown out of the window of her house , without getting so much as a scratch i might add , she is placed into protective police custody under the watchful eve of william baldwin . 
who's character , max kilpatric , a police detective , seems to possess the skills of some sort of fighting machine ( my guess is that the writers have seen way too many of steven seagal's early films ) . 
the point is that the idea of the crawford and baldwin's characters of the run from these killer russians isn't all that bad of an idea , it's just everything around that basic idea which kinda stinks out loud . 
the supporting cast members are nothing more that over acted stereotypes . 
if i was baldwin , i'd hope this film disappears . 
as for crawford , she may indeed have some acting ability . 
unfortunately , any she does have is obscured by writing that goes beyond bad . 
this movie was obviously written with cindy in mind , since the writers spend most of their time finding ways to capitalize off of her looks . 
it's too bad they hadn't spent more time on a half decent plot , since ms . crawford is more than capable of looking just fine all by herself thank you very much . 
unless you are a huge fan of either baldwin or crawford this is a movie that will only disappoint you . 
