synopsis : a maniac , crazed by virulent microphage , slaughters more than twenty people , including a street gang and heavily-armed troops , with a small knife . 
even with a handgun , however , he can't take out the two cops who are after him , despite having shot one of them a total of seven times . 
comments : the most notable aspect of adrenalin : fear the rush is that it marks a striking career move for natasha henstridge . 
not only does she manage to keep all her clothes on ( her trademark in earlier films such as species and maximum risk was to strip naked as often as possible ) , but she actually puts on even more clothes as the film progresses . 
this will probably disappoint many henstridge fans , but i welcome the change because henstridge is an attractive , capable actress who deserves less exploitative roles ( though , i admit , it doesn't show in this mess ) . 
henstridge , just like every other actor in the film , delivers a wooden performance in this monumental turkey . 
 ( the cast also includes christopher lambert , who has appeared in the highlander and mortal kombat films . ) 
how on earth this movie got two big-name stars to appear in it is beyond me . 
adrenalin : fear the rush is set in boston ten years in the future ( 2007 ) . 
boston has changed dramatically in those ten years . 
it is now home to a bunch of interred foreigners and policed by cops who drive around in small cars with " policia " printed on their doors . 
some guy has a really bad virus , and he's killing people because of it . 
so , the brave good guys ( lambert and henstridge ) go after him . 
that's it . 
76 minutes never seemed so long . 
this is a drawn-out chase scene through dimly-lit abandoned buildings turned into an entire movie . 
the plot development is nil ; we learn absolutely nothing about lambert's character and very little about henstridge's character . 
the dialogue is littered with unnecessary obscenities and concerns mindnumbingly idiotic arguments over who will go down the next dark corridor/tunnel/airduct next and who will carry the flashlight . 
a subplot does exist involving henstridge's character's illegal attempt to get her son out of boston . 
in her opening monologue , a monologue which sounds as though henstridge was reading from cue cards , we learn that she has gone to great lengths to secure a fake passport for her son . 
twenty minutes into the film , i wondered if the movie would have been better if it focused on this plot . 
in a defining scene of the movie , however , i changed my mind . 
this fake passport drops to the ground . 
lambert's cop immediately recognizes it as a fraud from six feet away . 
must not have been a good fake . 
this emphasizes another fault with the film . 
things just defy common sense . 
lambert's cop , for instance , is shot seven times , yet he is still able to talk and slide about . 
adrenalin : fear the rush ends in a trite manner that doesn't seem to even fit the mood that the filmmakers were trying for . 
i found myself rather bored with this film , which will disappoint both sci-fi/horror fans and fans of henstridge and lambert . 
don't fear the rush . 
fear the movie . 
watch something else . 
