i saw this film on christmas day expecting an upbeat comedy . 
boy was i in for a christmas dissapointment ! 
after an hour of the movie , i was ready to change rooms-into another theater ! 
read on to see what i have to say . . . . 
four rooms : 
starring : tim roth , jennifer beals , antonio banderas , quentin tarantino , valeria golino , madonna , bruce willis , marisa tomei , alicia witt , lili taylor , and ione skye . 
possible stars ) 
 " four rooms " was supposed to be one of the biggest hits of the year . 
key word here : " supposed . " 
four of the biggest directors in hollywood : quentin tarantino , robert rodriguez , alexander rockwell , and alison anders were all directing one big film with a big and popular cast . 
i guess it was all just too much because this turned out to be the biggest flop of the year and it could of been great . 
the plot : it's new years eve and it's a bellboy's first day on the job . 
he encounters many mysterious and kinky hotel guests as he tries to handle all his own problems . 
tarantino told his directors this plot , and each of them wrote a script . 
it turned out each of them had written a dark comedy . 
anders wrote and directed the tale about a coven of witches ( madonna , valeria golino , alicia witt , and ione skye ) , which was the worst one out of all of them . 
the second room ( jennifer beals ) was better , but lacking in plot . 
this room was about a man who accuses every man of sleeping with his wife . 
the third room ( antonio banderas ) was the best roomm , about two rambunctous kids that trash a hotel suite . 
the final one ( tarantino , willis ) was about a movie star wanting the bellboy to chop off someone's finger . 
the movie was just plain trash . 
there was nothing here that even makes up a quality film . 
it was not funny , and i didn't hear one laugh in the theater throughout the whole film . 
tim roth is horrible as the bumbling and mumbling bellboy , and he ruins every joke in the film . 
the supporting cast loses meaning to the word support and the only mentionable actors/actresses are antonio banderas and jennifer beals . 
marisa tomei appears in a stupid cameo role . 
this movie is the worst film of the year and the film could have been great , perhaps like a more upbeat " plaza suite , " but it wasn't . 
as trashy as it was , some people will call it classic . 
do you call a man chopping off a finger with madonna's chest showing a classic film ? 
look for more of ken's kritic korner coming soon ! 
please check the newsgroups under the movie reviews section for updated reviews . 
p . s . " four rooms " made number 1 on my top ten worst list of 1995 . 
